MATT: Hello everybody, and welcome to tonight's
episode of Critical Role, where a bunch of us
nerdy-ass voice actors sit around and play
Dungeons &amp; Dragons.
(cheering)
MATT: Now from our own studio!
TALIESIN: It's so weird!
MATT: I know, not a whole lot has changed at the
moment. A few things, a few little bells and
whistles here. But yeah, we're at our own place,
which is crazy.
TALIESIN: This is a crazy thing above us.
MATT: I know.
LIAM: We're surrounded with people in white robes.
I don't know why.
SAM: Just keep saying Fidelio.
TALIESIN: Fidelio.
MATT: Perfect. So welcome, glad you guys can join
us. Guys, still with the clap thing too much.
Before we jump into tonight's game, let's get
through our announcements. First and foremost, our
fantastic sponsor for this evening, and has been
for quite some time, our friends at D&amp;D Beyond!
SAM: D&amp;D Beyond!
MATT: Sam, if you want to take that away.
SAM: Yes, D&amp;D Beyond wanted to announce that their
826LA donation campaign has officially come to an
end, and they've raised $11,400 for 826LA based on
114 natural ones rolled through the end of June.
We are terrible, but our bad luck is the kids'
good fortune. The main thing that people have been
wondering and talking about on The Facebooks and
stuff is the new baby. Travis and Laura aren't
here, you guys might have noticed, and everyone's
like, "How was the birth? How did it all go down
"two Thursdays ago?" So I have taken a little
license, but I have scripted a bit of a radio play
that we're all going to participate in to show our
viewers how it all went down two Thursdays ago,
and how the birth came to be. Taliesin will be
narrating, I will be playing the role of Travis,
Marisha will be playing the role of Laura.
MARISHA: Sorry, Laura.
SAM: Liam will be the doctor.
LIAM: A real job, Dad!
SAM: And Matt will be a couple of different roles,
including Matt Mercer.
MATT: Oh, I can probably do that.
SAM: We're going to see what happens, this is a
first performance of its kind. Take it away, Taliesin.
TALIESIN: Exactly two weeks ago, at the Willingham
house.
SAM: Babe, can you bring me some onion rings and
Miller Ice with lime? The Cowboys game starts in
six weeks and I want to be ready.
MARISHA: Darling, something magical is happening.
Our boy, the magical light that will illuminate
the universe, will join us soon.
SAM: Huh, what?! Right now?! But the Cowboys!
MARISHA: Travis, dear, your stallion is galloping
to earth, humanity must welcome him with loving arms.
SAM: Ugh, I'll get the stupid hospital bag.
TALIESIN: Later, in the hospital waiting room.
SAM: Hey, Matt, heads up, Laura's having that
stupid baby.
MATT: Oh yeah, no problem, I'll just throw out the
next three weeks of story I planned out and
totally rework everything to accommodate this. I
don't need to sleep. Ever.
SAM: Cool, bro. Hey, can you also tape the Dallas
Cowboys game for me?
TALIESIN: Meanwhile, inside the delivery room.
LIAM: Okay, Mrs. Willingham.
MARISHA: It's Bailey.
LIAM: Oh right, sorry. Anyway, I have checked your
charts and you should be in a lot of pain right now.
MARISHA: I feel nothing but the sweet nectar of
Mother Nature coursing through me. My love
radiates like luminescent rainbows that will
create a new life this day.
LIAM: Really? Well, you should get ready for a
long labor, this one could take up to 36 hours--
MATT: (infant crying)
MARISHA: It is done.
(laughter)
MARISHA: The mortal world has received its divine
cherub.
LIAM: What?! That's medically impossible! You
didn't even push!
MARISHA: Does one need push for the summer to
shine down its radiance upon us? No, we merely
bask in its glory. Lo, my baby is perfection.
MATT: Yes, I am perfection. Mother, I bring news
from the womb. The newly revamped digital
character sheet from D&amp;D Beyond has released!
What's been added: improved desktop and tablet
views, better at a glance information, additional
ad hoc customization, custom themes, shareable
links, and an updated PDF export. To celebrate,
D&amp;D Beyond is giving away a complete legendary
bundle to a random viewer. To enter to win, go to
Twitter.com/DnDBeyond ('n', not '&amp;'), and reply to
the pinned tweet with a shareable link for one of
your D&amp;D Beyond characters. The giveaway ends this
Sunday at midnight PM.
MARISHA: You are a miracle baby. I love you.
MATT: I love you, Mama Willingham.
MARISHA: It's Bailey.
TALIESIN: And scene.
SAM: Thank you guys, this was great. That was
theater!
MATT: And strangely accurate.
MARISHA: That was handed to us two minutes ago.
SAM: You were fantastic as Laura Bailey.
LIAM: It was like Travis was here!
SAM: Yeah, my Travis is pretty good. Also from D&amp;D
Beyond, next Wednesday, July 18 at 1:00 PM
Pacific, &amp; BEYOND, a new weekly stream hosted by
Adam Bradford and Todd Kenreck, kicks off with
super-special guest Matthew Mercer.
MATT: Yay!
SAM: Did you know that? Okay, cool. Each week, the
show will cover not only D&amp;D, but also the guest's
other passions outside of D&amp;D, like D&amp;D.
MATT: Maybe they shouldn't have started with me.
SAM: Shenanigans will ensue, so don't miss it. Be
sure to check it out at Twitch.tv/dndbeyond to
watch. That's our sponsor shoutout.
MATT: Boom! Well done, Sam. Laura and Travis,
direct all that fury at Sam, please.
LIAM: Send your emails.
MATT: Thank you, Sam. A couple of quick notes
here: we are headed to San Diego Comic-Con next
week for our Critical Role panel and, as we
announced today, we're also going to New York
Comic-Con later this year. For details on either
of those events, go to Critrole.com for all the
information. It's there for you. The "Nott the
Best Detective Agency" shirt is up in the store
right now. Once again, head to shop.critrole.com
to check it out. Our fantastic, terrible detectives.
SAM: We'll see. Tonight.
MATT: We'll see. Yeah. Starting this week, the
Wyrmwood giveaways are back for Critical Role
intermission. The giveaways will be hosted on the
Critical Role Twitch channel, however, and moving
forward, so when we're coming to the break, if you
want to jump over to the Critical Role Twitch,
it's Twitch.tv/criticalrole. There, you can enter
the Wyrmwood giveaways. Keep an eye out for that
and we'll remind you before we jump to the break
as well. You can watch our hosted stream and our
sweepstakes there, at that location. As a
reminder, Talks Machina, our after-discussion show
about whatever transpires here at this table, is
every Tuesday evening. The next episode will be
next Tuesday at 7:00 PM Pacific time, hosted by
our fantastic Brian W. Foster, if he can get away
from Lancaster long enough. He'll be giving out
prizes for Gif of the Week, for Fanart of the
Week, and all that fun stuff, so check it out on
Tuesday. Other than that, let's go ahead and jump
in to tonight's episode of Critical Role.
SAM: (baby-like wailing)
[click, TV static]
[groovy Critical Role theme]
MATT: And welcome back.
SAM: Come in, Harry, come in. Take off your
robes.
MATT: So. Welcome back. Last we left off, The
Mighty Nein were making their way north after
making a deal with the Gentleman in Zadash. They
had completed the first of two tasks for him, the
second one requiring them to make their way to the
northern city of Shadycreek Run, outside of the
Empire, to meet with a business operative of his,
who had been busy with some other elements and
needed some help to reconnect about what their
business together was. Along this journey, you had
made a stop in the gnomish city of Hupperdook,
where you discovered the work-hard-play-hard
gnomish society, got all your money taken from
you, got it returned to you as you found out the
thieves were the young children of a family, the
parents of which had been arrested and had been
imprisoned for a while. You went to the prison,
helped destroy one of their long-haywire
guardians, and paid off the rest of the fine for
those parents, to set them free, returning them to
their children, and decided to leave your
temporary companion for a while, Kiri, with them,
as a safer means of continuing her journey, now
with her new family.
With that, you gathered your things, found
yourself a better crossbow, and began heading back
on the trail along the Crispvale Road and making
your way northward. There, you had set up camp for
the evening about a day's travel outside of
Hupperdook, and during the night, while Yasha and
Fjord were taking their watch, wakening Jester
with their conversation, and the three of them
deciding to step away from the camp as not to wake
the rest of you, they were... Well, they went missing.
SAM: We don't know.
MATT: We begin today's story as morning slowly
creeps over the distant mountains. The cold,
frosted dew on the tops of the nearby grasses
glistening like tiny crystals, the bits of
sunlight begin to just break past the ridge. The
sky, previously clear the night before showing the
stars above, now is matted with cloud cover and
small breaks that show the blue sky above. The
cold weather is definitely shaking you awake as
you all begin to come to, rubbing your eyes.
Glancing about the cold atmosphere, you come to
the hard, dirt ground patch that you had cleared
out for your evening's rest, your packs and tents
ready to be reassembled... But it's just the four
of you.
SAM: Jester, I need some pocket bacon for
breakfast. Jester? Jester-- oh, she's probably
taking a dump in the woods.
MARISHA: I think I have some pocket bacon still.
SAM: Oh, can I have some?
MARISHA: Yeah. It's a little moldy.
SAM: Oh, that's even better. (eating noises)
MARISHA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Fjord never came back after watch last
night.
LIAM: I stand up and scan the area.
MATT: Make a perception check.
LIAM: What is that? That's a six plus something.
Nine.
MATT: Looking about, there is a faint mist that is
still burning off that clouds your vision far
enough to the point where you can't quite see some
elements of the mountain range you had just come
from, but glancing about around you, there's no
sign of your three companions. There's no visuals
that guide you to where they might be.
MARISHA: Where's Yasha? She's gone too.
SAM: She does that sometimes. I'm sure it's
nothing.
MARISHA: Yeah, but--
TALIESIN: Fjord?
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Jester?
TALIESIN: The Traveler's bullshit!
SAM: That's playing--
TALIESIN: That really would've worked.
SAM: That's playing with fire.
TALIESIN: I'm going to check the tents. I'm going
to check the tents to see if their stuff is still there.
MATT: As you go about to their sleeping
arrangement spaces, everything except for whatever
they had on them as they took their watch is still
there. The haversack is left behind, the rest of
their goods lying on the ground where they were
left.
SAM: Their personal belongings and stuff?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Falchion?
MATT: The falchion's always with him.
MARISHA: Right, but his holster thingy. Right?
Didn't he have a holster thing, or did I just
imagine that because he's Texblade?
MATT: He would have a belt with pouches and such,
but no, that was on him at the time.
SAM: His spats and spurs?
MATT: Those are not there, unfortunately.
SAM: Oh, wow.
MATT: Essentially, everything but the equipment
they had on them-- in fact, if you look, you can
see Jester's shield is there, currently
untouched.
MARISHA: It's not right.
TALIESIN: Yasha's stuff is still here?
MATT: Yasha doesn't have much on her. Whatever she
does have, she generally keeps on her, so she
hasn't left anything behind.
TALIESIN: So there's nothing behind?
LIAM: Are their weapons here?
MATT: You don't see any weapons. Yasha keeps her
weapon on her at all times; Fjord, from what you
understand, weirdly never seems to have need. But
Jester's weapon is left next to the shield as well
as you begin to rummage through.
SAM: I'll take a swig to calm my morning nerves
and start searching around to see if there's any
notes or any signs of anything around.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
SAM: Okay. That's terrible.
TALIESIN: That's unbelievably bad.
SAM: That's an eight.
MATT: All right then. As you begin to rummage
around in the nearby grasses, tossing over the
remains of their left behind materials, even
pushing through the fire just in case some of them
may have fallen in, no sign.
TALIESIN: I'm going to check the road for fresh
tracks, see if anything looks like it was disturbed.
MATT: You'd make an investigation check then.
MARISHA: Are there trees nearby?
MATT: Not within the next mile or so.
TALIESIN: Oh, for fuck's sake. Same roll. Two.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: I am going to sit down and bring Frumpkin
out, and pull out my book and begin to do what's
needed to cast it again-- Find Familiar-- but I'm
going to turn Frumpkin into, uh... a peregrine falcon.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Whoa.
MARISHA: That was very specific for an "uh" to
come before it.
MATT: (laughs) So, as you are both losing
yourselves amongst the nearby grasses, and trying
to look for any sign of where they may have been,
you are focusing on your spell. What are you
doing, Beauregard?
MARISHA: Can I see if I see any grass that's been
laid down, like a direction that there might be
people who have walked through?
MATT: Go ahead and make an investigation check.
MARISHA: That's a natural one.
SAM: Oh my god, we're not even going to know
they're gone.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: They're literally scarecrows in the
background.
LIAM: They're probably skinny dipping somewhere!
MATT: This is amazing.
SAM: We got a two, a two, a one. What was your
first roll?
LIAM: I rolled a six, which turned into a nine.
SAM: Okay, so six is our top roll so far.
MATT: Knocking it out of the park, y'all.
TALIESIN: We are children lost at a Ross Dress for
Less. We're never going to see our parents again.
It's all over.
MARISHA: First roll in the new studio, it's a
one!
MATT: We'll get them out now! In the time that you
guys have begun to shout, you're continuing to
shout their names out, and forge through the
nearby grasses. Caleb, you complete your spell,
and Frumpkin's form suddenly, slowly shifts, then,
with a puff of steam and smoke, turns into the
falcon. Lands on your shoulder. (caws)
LIAM: I know, I am sorry. I will change you back
as fast as I can. I need you to look for the three
that you do not see here. The green one, the blue
one, and the goth one. Go!
MATT: You watch as Frumpkin takes off into the sky
and does a few loops. Go ahead and make a
perception check from a bird's eye view, which
makes it a little easier.
TALIESIN: (cawing)
LIAM: Natural 20.
TALIESIN: Hey! Thank God.
MATT: There you go! When humanity fails, bring in
the hawks.
MARISHA: We know nature is better at everything.
MATT: With a quick, singular pass overhead, you
watch as Frumpkin sends you an immediate bit of
information. You focus through the eyes, and
glancing down, you see a clearing where a large
portion of grass, maybe about 60 or so feet from
where you guys are, has been pushed down. And you
see tracks and drag marks and grooves in the dirt.
LIAM: Oh shit. There was a-- This way! I come out
of it so I don't trip on rocks. There's a struggle
this way. And I lead the group back to this.
MATT: All right. You guys rush over, and there you
can see on the ground this patch of disturbed
grass that has been pushed down, along with the
dirt that has been jammed and shoved up into small
side piles and trenches that were dug in. There's
definitely signs of a struggle here. At a quick
glance, looking around, footprints and signs,
there looks to be somewhere between five to eight
sets of footprints you can see from all different
angles. And you can see three grooves being
dragged through the dirt into the grass, towards
the road a little bit northward.
SAM: Can we follow those grooves?
MATT: Yeah. You guys go ahead and follow these the
best you can, eventually making your way to the
outer side of the Crispvale Road, the path that
you were on already, but a little ways north of
where you were. And there you can see the grooves
end, and a number of sets of heavy wagon wheels
begin, or at least have previously pulled off the
trail and then pushed themselves back onto the road.
MARISHA: So it's impossible to tell if it's the
same one?
SAM: Can we see which direction those wagon tracks
went in?
MATT: It's hard to tell which direction wagon
tracks go in, necessarily. Make a survival check.
SAM: Survival. Nine.
MATT: (laughs) Could be going north. Could be
going south. You're not entirely sure.
SAM: That narrows it down! It's not east or west,
guys!
MATT: Northeast or southwest.
SAM: God damn it!
MARISHA: Well, that's more narrow. When it was
going on the road, was it going towards the
direction we were going, or were we following it?
MATT: You're not entirely certain. The tracks seem
to be traveling either in the northeast direction
that the road goes that you were traveling, or
heading back towards Hupperdook. What you do
notice, though, and what keys you in that this has
something to do with this, is the tracks grind off
the road by about five or ten feet, and that's
where the grooves of these dragged individuals or
sacks stop. And then it pushes back onto the
road.
LIAM: Here is what I am wondering: why we are
still here. Yasha and Jester and Fjord, they
didn't know each other before a month ago.
SAM: Who was on watch? It was Fjord and Yasha,
right?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: So they would have been awake. But what about
Jester? She was asleep, right?
MARISHA: She also has a big old crushie on Fjord.
LIAM: If they were taken, that means they came to
our camp and took her, possibly. And even if they
did not, it's not like we were hiding.
MARISHA: Why couldn't we hear anything?
SAM: Maybe they weren't targeting anyone specific,
just coming to grab folks, and those were the ones
that were awake, or closest to the road, or--
LIAM: You'd take the three beefiest of a group of
strangers?
SAM: Well, they took the three ugliest ones. I
mean, they left us.
TALIESIN: First, thank you. Second, they may have
just taken the ones that were furthest away from
the light. They just picked them off, maybe? You
walk away from camp, that's what happens. I mean,
it's not the biggest or strongest. It's the--
SAM: Wait. I'm going to examine the tracks for
blood.
MATT: Make another investigation check.
SAM: Mmm. That's an 11.
MATT: It's better. In looking through near where
these cart tracks begin, there's no signs of
blood. Going back and following the grooves
through the dirt, you find a few small traces.
SAM: Anything weird about the blood? Is it green
blood, purple blood, blue blood?
MATT: No, just standard dark, dusted-over blood at
this point.
MARISHA: Censored video game blood.
SAM: That means that they weren't bleeding when
they were dragged, which means that either they
were killed by vampires and all their blood was
sucked out of them first, or they were still alive.
MARISHA: And that blood was far away from our
camp. Maybe they were just triggered by a sound
that they heard, and they went to go investigate
it.
TALIESIN: I'm going to freak out. Is there any
trash or anything on the road? I'm just going to
look for any--
MATT: Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: That's better. 14.
MATT: 14? As you look off, looking for any sign of
change, there's the fog at the far peripheral of
where you're watching. Nothing on the road, except
for a couple of tufts of scrub brush, catch your
eyes, until you see a dark shape on the road to
the south.
TALIESIN: Moving?
MATT: Moving. It looks to be a shadowed outline of
a person.
TALIESIN: I'm going to draw both swords and head
towards it.
SAM: Seeing that, I will draw my new crossbow.
Turn it on. I imagine it's battery-powered.
(powering-up noise)
(laughter)
MARISHA: Four D batteries. It's very obnoxious.
MATT: They run out in half an hour. It's like a
Game Gear.
LIAM: Do you want my not-cat to go look first?
TALIESIN: I may have already moved. I didn't think
of that.
MATT: I think Molly's already off.
MARISHA: I'm following Molly. As I follow Molly, I
turn to Nott and Caleb, and I say, just stay back
for a second. Back us up if we need it.
SAM: Sure.
MATT: So you've nocked your bolt into your
crossbow for the first time. As it winds back, you
crank it, and it slips into place. You hear this
faint spring tension.
SAM: Ooh!
MATT: As you're preparing for this, Molly and Beau
start rushing up.
TALIESIN: Yeah. I'm just going to be obvious.
MARISHA: I flank.
MATT: Okay, so you head off into the brush?
MARISHA: Stealth.
MATT: Make a stealth check.
LIAM: I send Frumpkin to do a lazy circle.
MARISHA: Man. This feels like last game. 12.
MATT: 12, okay. Good to know. Molly, as you get
closer, the shape takes more form. As the mist
fades and your proximity grows closer, you see a
squat figure. Wide and muscular, armored, with a
sack over the shoulder. Ashly, if you want to
enter?
SAM: What?! Whoa!
TALIESIN: That was fast.
LIAM: This is Your Life!
MATT: Ashly Burch joins us at the table.
LIAM: Hey, Ashly. Welcome.
MATT: So Ashly, if you'd like to describe what
Molly sees as he approaches?
ASHLY: What Molly sees is a dwarven woman with a
five o'clock shadow, a cigarette hanging out of
her mouth, extremely battered, bloodied, rusted
armor, full armor, and short, greasy hair. And she
has a big ol' axe in one hand, and a big ol'
hammer in the other. Does she see these folk now?
MATT: Roll a perception check for me.
ASHLY: I don't have dice.
MATT: Oh! We should get that for you.
SAM: How? This is terrible, here.
LIAM: The Laura Bailey bladder was right here.
Where'd it go?
MARISHA: Yeah, do you want--? Pick a dice bag.
MATT: We got plenty.
TALIESIN: And here, have a thing.
ASHLY: Oh, hey, thanks guys! It's like I'm part of
the crew. Okay. So I'm rolling perception?
MATT: Yes. So roll a d20, add your perception
modifier.
ASHLY: Okay.
SAM: So much better than us.
ASHLY: It's 18.
MATT: So you see one figure coming towards you,
difficult to make out gender, of lavender skin,
curled horns filled with jewelry, big long coat of
multi-colors, maroon, but then it goes into a
rainbow pattern almost, with two glowing scimitars
to each side, staring you down. Behind that, you
see two figures a little bit beyond your sight to
make out all the details, but one seems to be a
tall humanoid, the other seems to be much shorter
and smaller, probably halfling, gnome. And then
off in the bushes, not hiding very well, you see
another figure, keeping low to your left.
ASHLY: Ah, son of a dick. All right, let's get
this over with. And then she holds up her
battleaxe and her warhammer.
SAM: Oh, she's challenging us.
MARISHA: As I make eye-contact, I'm like, Aw,
shit. Was it the blue? Was I too tall?
ASHLY: I mean, you guys have your weapons drawn.
I'm assuming-- Are we going to do this or what?
MARISHA: I would just like a little bit of
feedback so I know how to perfect it later.
ASHLY: Are you asking about your hiding?
MARISHA: Yeah.
ASHLY: It's shit, man. You gotta choose a new--
MARISHA: Fuck. All right.
ASHLY: I saw you. I thought you weren't trying
to hide.
MARISHA: You've got great eyesight.
ASHLY: Not really.
MARISHA: I'm complimenting you.
TALIESIN: What the fuck is going on?
MARISHA: What's your name?
LIAM: Through the wire I whisper--
ASHLY: What's your fucking name? You guys got
weapons out. What's going on?
MARISHA: What's your fucking name?!
ASHLY: What's your fucking name?!
LIAM: I put the wire away.
(laughter)
SAM: What's going on up there?!
TALIESIN: We don't know!
SAM: Should I kill something?
TALIESIN: Probably!
ASHLY: I got a place to be, so if we could move
this along. Are we fighting or not?
MARISHA: Molly, ask her. We're at an impasse.
TALIESIN: I haven't really thought this through.
Where did you come from? What are you doing in the
bloody bushes by our campsite?
ASHLY: I was walking up the road, man. I didn't
expect to see a bunch of poorly hidden weirdos
with fucking weapons drawn.
LIAM: (shouts) Just make conversation.
MARISHA: How's your day?
(laughter)
ASHLY: Weird now!
MARISHA: Sorry. Happens sometimes.
ASHLY: Wait, where are you guys from? Are you from
the Run?
MARISHA: What's the Run? No, really, what's the
Run? That sounds fascinating.
ASHLY: So you're not from the Run.
SAM: (shouts) I think she means Shadycreek Run.
ASHLY: Yeah, that.
MARISHA: Oh, shit. We should have thought about
that. I don't know your street lingo.
ASHLY: It's just a shortened version of the name.
MARISHA: Yeah, you're right again.
TALIESIN: I'm putting down one of the swords.
We're having a very weird day.
SAM: Just one?
TALIESIN: Just one. There's still one glowing
sword.
ASHLY: Here, I'll put away the hammer.
(laughter)
MATT: The de-escalation has begun.
TALIESIN: We more or less got robbed last night
and you're the first living human being that we've
seen-- or, not human being.
ASHLY: Dwarf.
MARISHA: And by "robbed," he means half of our
party got abducted. "Robbed?" That's such a light
way of putting it.
ASHLY: Whoa! Your party got abducted? When?
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Last night.
ASHLY: Son of a bitch. Yeah, okay.
MARISHA: We were actually headed to the Run. It
does sound pretty cool.
ASHLY: All right.
SAM: I'm going to walk up next to Molly.
MARISHA: (shouts) Yeah, hey, Caleb! Nott!
MATT: This tiny figure, hooded, with wrappings,
and a creepy porcelain doll face that covers--
ASHLY: All right, I pull my hammer back out.
SAM: Should I kill her?
TALIESIN: Not yet. But keep it drawn.
ASHLY: So all you guys are trying to do right now
is to try to get these people back that got got?
Is that right?
LIAM: (shouts) They have great sentimental value!
SAM: You can come up now, Caleb.
LIAM: (shouts) No, I'm good!
TALIESIN: We're having a very bad morning. I
apologize if we came off a little terse. All
right, fine.
MARISHA: We're a little on edge, considering
family-- I mean, party members-- were abducted.
ASHLY: All right, I got a question. Does anyone
have booze?
SAM: (smug giggling)
TALIESIN: Oh no.
SAM: Why?
ASHLY: Because I'm more partial to talking... I'm
out. My flask is done.
SAM: Oh, your flask runs out?
ASHLY: Yes, weird creepy doll girl!
SAM: (smug giggling)
ASHLY: Can anyone explain this shit to me? The
fuck is happening right now?
SAM: Sorry.
LIAM: (calling) It's complicated!
ASHLY: Can you come out of the bush?! Please?!
SAM: He's very weak.
(laughter)
LIAM: Frumpkin lands on Nott's shoulder.
MATT: A giant falcon (caw) lands.
ASHLY: Ah!
SAM: Don't worry. It's a cat, usually.
ASHLY: What?!
TALIESIN: I have an idea. We've all had a bit of a
morning. Let's sit down. Have a drink. We can get
you liquor. We can talk about anything you've seen
traveling on the road in the last day or two.
ASHLY: What's your name? I like you.
TALIESIN: I'm Molly.
ASHLY: Pleasure.
TALIESIN: Is your name Pleasure, then?
ASHLY: No.
TALIESIN: Oh, okay. That would've been very
inconvenient parenting.
ASHLY: I'm trying this thing where I'm trying to
be more polite, and people say shit like that I guess.
TALIESIN: There's weird parents that do things.
ASHLY: My name's Keg.
SAM: Ooh!
ASHLY: As in powder or booze.
TALIESIN: Never mind. They're very weird parents.
SAM: I like you already. Here, do you have a cup
or something I could pour into?
ASHLY: Yeah, I got a flask.
TALIESIN: Let's sit.
SAM: All right, I'm going to take out my flask and
pour a good, healthy, half quantity. You have to
drink it fast. It will disappear soon.
ASHLY: What?
TALIESIN: Is that true?
SAM: Yes.
ASHLY: What the fuck is with you people? All
right, Keg knocks it back.
MATT: It's harsh but functional.
ASHLY: Okay. I know who took your friends.
SAM: What? I am the greatest detective of all
times! I poured one drink, and I solved the case!
(laughter)
ASHLY: I know who took your friends. They're not
nice people, as you may have gathered. Good thing
you were heading to Shadycreek Run because that's
where they operate out of.
SAM: How do you know? Who are they?
ASHLY: I know. Okay? I know. I'm looking for them
too.
SAM: Did you lose someone?
ASHLY: (quietly) Yeah.
MARISHA: Wait, I thought you were coming from
Shadycreek Run.
ASHLY: No. I ain't been there in a while.
MARISHA: Ah. But you've been there.
ASHLY: Yeah, I've been there. I know it pretty
well. It ain't a nice place. It's probably the
least nice place that you could all possibly go
to, so--
MARISHA: It's named Shady.
ASHLY: Shady. Aptly named.
TALIESIN: Well we're not necessarily nice people,
so that'll work out fine.
LIAM: We are well traveled.
ASHLY: Okay. Are you tough? Because you don't look
it.
SAM: (weak growl)
TALIESIN: We're not.
ASHLY: Was I supposed to be scared?
SAM: Oh, I should take off the mask. It's more
scary that way. (growl)
ASHLY: Ah! Okay, yeah, that works.
MARISHA: Molly doesn't speak for me. I feel like I
can hold my own pretty well.
LIAM: Yeah, she's all right.
MARISHA: I might actually be the only tough one
here. Shit.
ASHLY: That's not great to hear. Okay. How much do
these people mean to you?
MARISHA: Well, they're the only people I've had in
my life since my father, so. Parents.
TALIESIN: We don't leave people behind, and that's
the deal.
ASHLY: All right. What are your names?
MARISHA: Plus, we had to go up there anyway.
ASHLY: So it's Molly--
TALIESIN: Molly, pleasure.
ASHLY: What's the creepy little one?
SAM: (stuttering) Jeff.
TALIESIN: Nott.
ASHLY: Thank you, Molly.
SAM: It's Nott.
ASHLY: You're going to be a fucking piece of work.
What's your name?
MARISHA: Beau.
ASHLY: Beau. And Bush Man?
LIAM: Ah, I like that.
ASHLY: All right, Bush Man. Okay.
LIAM: My name is Caleb, but you could still call
me Bush Man.
ASHLY: Do you prefer Bush Man?
LIAM: Well, let's think about it.
SAM: Herr Bush. Why don't you come back to our
camp?
ASHLY: Ain't I at your camp?
TALIESIN: We are at the camp right now.
SAM: No, aren't we in the road? Oh, did we come
back?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Walked over as you poured the drink.
SAM: Oh, okay. Cool.
TALIESIN: I'm going to nervously pack while this
is going on.
LIAM: Yeah, I'm scooping up the haversack.
ASHLY: So here's the deal. Shadycreek Run is full
of a bunch of shitty lowlifes. They're all
murderers. They're all pieces of shit. The people
that took your friends are the biggest pieces of
shit in the entire place.
MARISHA: That's nice.
SAM: Who are they?
ASHLY: They're called the Iron Shepherds. Slavers.
Murderers. Basic pieces of shit. They're very good
at what they do. They are the scariest, most
powerful people that I've probably ever met, and
I've met a lot of people. I grew up in Shadycreek
Run.
LIAM: When you say powerful, are you talking about
ability, or connections, or both?
ASHLY: Both.
LIAM: Shit.
ASHLY: Everybody knows them there.
MARISHA: You said slavers?
ASHLY: Yeah. Sorry to break it you, but your pals
just got taken into slavery.
SAM: Why are they operating this far from "the
Run?" Also what kind of slavers-- These are
powerful people that they just kidnapped.
ASHLY: Yeah. That's what they want.
LIAM: This is why maybe they took the beefy ones.
ASHLY: They're not trying to find weaklings on the
side of the road. Which is why it seems like most
of you people got spared--
SAM: Okay, okay. You don't know us.
ASHLY: Hey, you bared your teeth at me five times,
little man!
SAM: I gave you a little bourbon! I'm a lady. I
gave you some booze. The least you could do is
afford us the benefit of the doubt.
ASHLY: Sorry.
TALIESIN: She does have a fair point, though. We
are a little squishy.
ASHLY: I'm not really good at the people thing.
TALIESIN: You're in good company right now.
SAM: Beau is terrible with relationships and
social interactions!
MARISHA: That's why we clearly got off to a great
start. Sorry.
LIAM: I'm not very good at it either, and you are
an exile.
MARISHA: I'm also trying to work on the manners
thing.
ASHLY: Cool, all right.
MARISHA: The guy who actually got taken from us
was helping me.
TALIESIN: We lost the charm.
SAM: Do you know any of their names, the
Shepherds?
ASHLY: Yeah, I know all of them.
SAM: Who are they?
ASHLY: Okay. Before that, here's the deal. I have
some beef, as you may have gathered, with this
crew. I'm not interested in just getting your
friends and getting out. I want to fucking kill
every single last one of them. If you want any
more information from me, I'm going to need a
little bit of buy-in.
TALIESIN: I just toss 20 gold and I'm like, throw
me a cigarette please.
SAM: 20 gold is expensive. Wait, so if you could
rescue your friends, or friend, or whatever--
ASHLY: There ain't nobody left to rescue, man.
SAM: Are you sure?
ASHLY: Yeah, pretty fucking sure.
SAM: So it's revenge, then.
ASHLY: Yeah.
MARISHA: If Shadycreek Run is full of a bunch of
criminals, and you said you lived there for a
while, what were you doing there?
ASHLY: It's not important.
MARISHA: Well that's pretty clear.
ASHLY: No one there did anything nice. Okay? So
fucking imagine something shitty, and I probably
did it, okay? I'm not proud of it! I'm trying to
turn a new leaf, as it were.
SAM: I just imagined some crazy shit.
(laughter)
MARISHA: It's like a horror film. The more you
leave it up to your imagination, the worse it is.
TALIESIN: I'm not one to interrogate someone's
past. Information's information. We could use some help.
ASHLY: If you want my aid, I know that place like
the back of my hand. I need some kind of assurance
that when we find these motherfuckers you're not
just going to grab your friends and run. Because
I'm going to need some backup if I'm going to take
them out.
MARISHA: How about equal assurance that you don't
fuck us over?
TALIESIN: You could also hire us.
ASHLY: Hire you?
TALIESIN: 20 gold.
ASHLY: You just gave me 20 gold.
TALIESIN: Yes, that's how I know you can afford
us.
(laughter)
ASHLY: 20 gold, all told?
TALIESIN: And we split whatever we find.
MARISHA: And you don't fuck us, and we don't fuck
you. Unless, like... you know...
TALIESIN: You pay at the end of the deal.
ASHLY: All right, deal.
MARISHA: It's been a while.
SAM: You're confident that you can lead us to
these Shepherds.
ASHLY: I've been tracking them for a while.
LIAM: You know, we are, some of us, a
self-deprecating lot. We have some skill between
the four of us, but it would help a lot to know
what kind of people-- not just assholes; we are
assholes-- what kind of assholes we are talking
about.
ASHLY: Sorcerers. Barbarians. There's a little
shit that's a rogue.
SAM: How many of them are there?
ASHLY: There's five.
SAM: Hey, we're five!
ASHLY: Yeah, kind of. We're probably a good three
and a half, if we're being honest.
SAM: Don't put yourself down like that. I'm sure
you can hold your own.
ASHLY: I'm talking about you mostly, sweet cheeks.
There's five.
LIAM: Are they part of a larger organization, or
are they off themselves? It's just them?
ASHLY: They work for someone, a family in Shady
Creek Run. They're powerful.
MARISHA: They're mobsters!
Weird question: have I heard about this
group, considering my background?
MATT: Make a history check.
MARISHA: History. My history changed here
recently. That's my second natural one in a row.
I'm going to get rid of this one. Where's Laura
with her dice jail when you need it? That's an 18
that I just rolled now.
MATT: You have not heard of the Iron Shepherds
before. You have some base knowledge of some
families that might do business in the outside,
but the information you've been given so far, the
Iron Shepherds don't ring a bell.
MARISHA: Okay.
SAM: You know, when we were in Zadash, we heard
the town crier talking about kidnappings in
Nogvurot. That's close to Shadycreek Run. Could
that be the same people, do you think?
ASHLY: I mean, possibly. There's a lot of folks
doing the same kind of work. These folk happen to
be the best at it.
MARISHA: Do you know all of the members of this
Iron Brigade-- what's it called?
ASHLY: Close enough.
MARISHA: Iron Shepherds.
SAM: Iron Chef.
MARISHA: Iron Shep.
ASHLY: That's my favorite travelling cuisine
entertainment.
LIAM: I prefer Iron Fem Shepard.
MARISHA: For sure.
(laughter)
ASHLY: This is my favorite D&amp;D game on the
Citadel.
MATT: There it was. I was waiting for it. If
someone else wasn't going to get there, I was
going to do it. So thank you for taking it.
MARISHA: One of them wouldn't happen to be named
Ophelia Mardun, were they? No? Okay. That's the
woman we have to find for The Gentleman. That's
part of the reason we're going.
TALIESIN: I try not to learn their names. I don't
want to get attached.
ASHLY: No.
MATT: There is an aspect of that name that does
ring a bell: the last name.
ASHLY: Oh shit, say that again?
MARISHA: Mardun.
SAM: Here, let me pour you some more booze.
ASHLY: Thank you.
SAM: Does that help?
ASHLY: Yes, I suddenly remember that name. I know
the family. They've got connections there. In
fact, the folks that the Iron Shepherds work for
happen to hate that family.
SAM: This is all connected!
MARISHA: Rival mob gangs!
SAM: It's like a conspiracy, and we're in the
middle of it!
ASHLY: You being a detective, you hear other
people say information and then you remark upon
it, and then that's you saying you're a great
detective?
TALIESIN: Yes.
SAM: In large part. The subject was confused as to
what a detective is. I'm not writing. I don't have
a quill. It's something that me and one of our
lost friends talked about a lot. Sorry.
ASHLY: Sorry. Again, I'm not great with people.
LIAM: Do we have an arrangement here? A deal?
SAM: We'll kill these folks, or try to anyway.
ASHLY: I don't like that last part.
SAM: What if one gets away? We're going to hunt
them down over our lifetime? I don't know, what if
they go far away? Are we indebted to you forever
now, or can we put a 30 day cap on this?
LIAM: These three are of great value to us and
they are our friends, and we are better off with
them, and it is worth the trouble. We cannot
accomplish what we've come out here to do in the
first place without them. What?
SAM: Nothing. You sure sound like our new leader.
MARISHA: Wait, what about me?
TALIESIN: Don't panic about it, it's going to be
fine.
SAM: Oh yeah, no.
MARISHA: Aw, cool. Real cool, Nott.
SAM: I mean, he's got the intelligence.
LIAM: You be the leader. But do we have a deal?
ASHLY: Yeah, we have a deal.
TALIESIN: I'm all in for this.
ASHLY: All right. Well, let's get going, then.
SAM: Are you just walking? Do you have any means
of transportation?
ASHLY: Do I look like I have-- no!
TALIESIN: We have spare horses now.
SAM: We do.
MATT: At which point, you look over past the camp
where they are, and there's a cart and there are a
number of horses that are currently hitched to it
at the moment. For a brief moment, you're like,
Oh, the thought of not having to travel on foot
sounds fantastic.
ASHLY: Let's do that. Let's please, god, do that.
TALIESIN: We're half packed already.
MATT: As you guys pack up your goods, get the rest
of your material packed up, couple things to keep
in mind. Looking at the map, if you want to pull
it out and get an idea of the direction you're traveling.
SAM: Oh, we have a map of some sort? Should we lay
it out on the table and see if--
MATT: As long you guys can see it is more the job
here. You can travel with your horses--
SAM: Weights?
MARISHA: Sam take one side.
MATT: With your horse and cart--
MARISHA: Sponsored by Wyrmwood.
MATT: Look at that! Timing.
TALIESIN: That's how it's done.
SAM: Thank you.
TALIESIN: There you go.
MATT: You guys are currently right... here. So you
just left Hupperdook, you're on the Crispvale
Roadway making your way to the Crispvale Thicket
which is the large forest at the crossroads. You
can travel about 24 miles per an eight hour day at
a normal pace with the horses and cart, you can go
30 miles at a fast pace, and you can force a march
to go for another hour, or two, or three afterward
but you start making constitution saving throws or
take exhaustion points at that point. But you can
get quite a good distance depending on how fast
you're going. The cart keeps you at a slower pace.
If you were to leave the cart behind as an option,
you could go faster.
SAM: But we'd have to ditch some gear, or do we
have enough horses to carry everything including shields?
TALIESIN: We would have to ditch some.
LIAM: Yeah, I think we ditch the cart. They've got
hours on us, we need to make time.
MARISHA: I agree.
TALIESIN: How much can we carry?
SAM: Can we carry all of our friends' stuff on a
horse? We have six horses, I think.
MATT: You have six horses between five of you, as
long as one of you takes the horse head you can
have a pack horse, essentially. It's going to be
hard to direct it, unless someone keeps it hitched
on the side. Having an additional horse right now,
how are you going to get that to come with you at
a fast pace... without a rider?
LIAM: And we can't carry their stuff without.
MATT: You can probably carry a few things. You
still have horses to help carry things, most of
your gear you can still put on yourself. Are there
any large things? You're not carrying a manticore
head anymore.
LIAM: We leave the shield. It's not a magical
shield, it's not special.
SAM: It's not?
MARISHA: Jester's?
LIAM: It's run of the mill.
MARISHA: Well, hang on.
SAM: It's not special to her in any way?
MARISHA: I open the haversack.
LIAM: Life is more special.
MARISHA: And start trying to shove as much as I
can in the haversack.
LIAM: Ow, what are you doing?
MARISHA: I'm trying to-- Just wait, don't move.
MATT: The main pack, I'd say you can-- I'm going
to say the shield's not going to fully fit in it
unfortunately. It's a fairly wide shield and won't
quite fit.
MARISHA: What about a tent? Can I shove a tent in
here?
MATT: A tent you can probably mangle and push in
there and you manage to get the tent in. But the
shield someone will have to wear on their back or
strap to a horse.
MARISHA: Yeah, let's strap it to a horse.
TALIESIN: Are we going to try and pack horse this?
Is that how we're--?
MARISHA: No I think we can...
LIAM: Go faster without a spare horse.
MARISHA: I think the shield and--
SAM: The big things we're leaving?
MARISHA: We put a tent in there and if we want to
attach another tent to the back.
LIAM: DM, you said we could put the shield on the
side of a horse?
MATT: You can put the shield-- strap it to a
horse, it's fine because it's just an additional
thing you're strapping on to it. It's up to you.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: It's just the additional horse is going to
be a problem if you're going to travel at a fast pace.
LIAM: Well then, we shouldn't do that, we should
go as fast as we can right now.
SAM: All right.
MARISHA: So we're leaving behind a horse and a
cart.
TALIESIN: Or we take the horse and cart at
reasonable speed.
SAM: No, we should leave them.
MARISHA: Is there a town coming up? Or some place
where we can quickly sell the horse and cart?
TALIESIN: Or stow it.
MATT: No, there is the Crispvale Thicket ahead
which has the crossroads, but there's no town
there-- Hupperdook behind you, or, honestly,
Nogvurot or Shadycreek Run.
MARISHA: We lead the horse to water, we force it
to drink, we give it some food, hope it lives.
LIAM: We set it free.
MARISHA: Maybe come back and find it.
LIAM: Or it's free or somebody gets a new horse.
MARISHA: We hang a sign on it. "Free horse."
SAM: Why don't we kill it and take some meat? All
right, let's just leave it.
ASHLY: I mean, not to put a damper on it, but if
you leave a horse around here, it's probably going
to get killed. There's a lot of shady folks around
here.
SAM: I mean, the horses are all named after--
MARISHA: Poop.
SAM: Poop. So we can probably--
MATT: So which one do you leave behind then?
SAM: I believe we're going to take WC, Loo, John,
Crapper, and Toilet, but we're going to leave Loaf.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: So we're going to drop a Loaf.
SAM: We're going to drop a quick Loaf, then go.
It's always better to drop a Loaf before you go.
TALIESIN: Let's leave a marker.
ASHLY: I'm starting to rethink my agreement to
work with you guys.
MATT: Welcome to the Mighty Nein.
TALIESIN: If he's going to die, we have to leave a
marker so we can come back and find where he's
been interred.
SAM: Sure.
TALIESIN: Poop joke.
SAM: Skidmark.
MATT: As you say goodbyes to Loaf...
LIAM: Pinch him off.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: We squeezed about as much as we can out
of that one.
MATT: You strap your materials to the horses you
are taking with you.
TALIESIN: It's been a while.
MATT: So you're going at a fast pace. That's 30
miles.
SAM and MARISHA: Yep.
MATT: You travel in day. Which will get you well
within the Crispvale Thicket. As you guys are
riding, who's guiding this trip? Who's keeping an
eye on the road ahead of you as you go?
SAM: Is one of us steering the journey, and can
another one of us be looking for clues or things
along the way?
MATT: You can do that. Sure.
TALIESIN: I was going to say--
MARISHA: Keg should lead.
TALIESIN: Keg's been on this road before.
ASHLY: Yeah, can someone do me a favor? Does
anyone have a piece of cloth or something they're
not using?
TALIESIN: I have a giant dragon tapestry.
ASHLY: Could I borrow that maybe?
SAM: Are you cold?
MATT: This is the one thing you see strapped,
laying over the back of his horse. This giant,
rolled up, thick, blue and silver tapestry.
ASHLY: Okay, I wrap my head around it-- with it, I
should say. So you can't really see my face.
TALIESIN: You now have a cape, it's huge.
ASHLY: Okay.
MATT: As you take the full tapestry or just a
piece of it.
TALIESIN: I think the full tapestry.
MATT: All right, so yeah-- it's you are just--
SAM: Swimming in it.
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Why are you hiding your face?
ASHLY: I didn't leave with a lot of friends last
time I was here. So I'm trying to keep a low profile.
TALIESIN: You're well disguised as a stoner's
bedroom at the moment. A dragon on a sheet.
ASHLY: Perfect, I'll fit right in.
MATT: There you go.
ASHLY: I guess I can lead, since I know where I'm
going.
MATT: Okay. You've traveled this path before, so
it's well known. Who's keeping watch?
MARISHA: I'll keep watch.
MATT: Okay. Go ahead and make a perception check
for me, Beau.
MARISHA: Hopefully there are no more ones hiding
in there.
SAM: Do you want to look at the thing, the orb?
MARISHA: 18.
SAM: Okay, you're good.
TALIESIN: Yeah, the orb, we haven't--
SAM: We have to look at the orb at some point too
or hexagon. Dexa--
MATT and TALIESIN: Dodecahedron.
SAM: Thank you.
MATT: All right, as you're heading down into the
center part of the northern side of the Marrow
Valley. Keeping a look ahead, you can see just as
you crest over this one little embankment, the
Crispvale Thicket ahead of you. This beautiful
cluster of dark-green trees. The clouds have
completely taken the sky back and it's this low,
gloomy gray as the air gets chilly, as the day
progresses onward getting closer and closer to
dusk. You manage to get to the outskirts of the
thicket itself. You see the trees growing thicker
and the actual canopy of dark green pine trees
starting to gather. You now have the opportunity,
if you want to, you can travel into the crossroads
and head north, or you can skirt around the forest
off the path. Those are your-- because you
haven't-- you're basically having to go to the
center and then back north, but you're on the road
the whole time. Or if you wanted to skip past it,
you'll travel a little slower-- basically a
similar pace.
SAM: But we won't encounter as many foes.
MATT: Well you don't know.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: It just depends on your--
SAM: Are we trying to avoid people or--
TALIESIN: I'm more than happy to kill something at
this point. I've got some anger and aggression to
work out.
MARISHA: What's the faster route?
MATT: Make a survival check.
MARISHA: 12.
MATT: Looking about, you gather the faster route
would probably be to skirt around the outside of
the forest. Because you don't have to switch back
even though the terrain isn't quite as well tread.
However, you've left the cart behind which means
the one factor that would've really come into
that, is no longer an issue.
MARISHA: We're on horses, let's just cut through.
ASHLY: Do we get a sense of where they're headed?
Do we see any sign of--
MATT: At this point, in the main road, there are a
number of tracks. Whether it be horse, foot, and
cart and wheels of all different sizes. You're not
able to really tell what's the freshest from a
glance. If you want to get off your horse and
inspect you can try.
ASHLY: I'll try. Would that be--
MATT: That would be survival.
ASHLY: How good is my survival? Eh, it's okay. A
natty one.
TALIESIN: Welcome to the team.
ASHLY: I don't even know what horses are anymore.
MARISHA: This is a donkey.
MATT: You glance down-- From atop your horse you
look down and see these smattering of patterns,
and as you get down closer it just becomes dirt,
and you have no idea how to discern what came when.
ASHLY: I'm drunk. That was pointless, let's keep
going.
TALIESIN: (vomit sound)
MATT: So, which path do you guys wish to choose?
SAM: Caleb, you're in charge. Which way are we
going?
TALIESIN: Oh, for gods' sakes.
SAM: Well he's so--
LIAM: Which way are we going?
MARISHA: I say we go through the woods, but you're
the leader.
LIAM: I said you were the leader.
SAM: Caleb.
LIAM: I'm not a leader.
TALIESIN: Oh, for gods' sakes, I'm going to start
going through the woods.
MATT: So you're going through the thicket or
around the outside of it?
MARISHA: Sorry, around. The shortcut.
MATT: Okay. So you're skirting the outside of the
thicket.
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: Okay. As you start cresting around the side
of the forest, within the first mile or so, you
see an abandoned homestead. Maybe 200 feet or so
away from the forest on the northern side. It may
have been at one time a small farmhouse, but part
of the roof is caved in. There once was a window
that had pane glass that has since been shattered,
and you can see jagged edges along the bottom side
of its sill.
TALIESIN: What time is it?
MATT: Right now? I'd say it's probably close to
four or five in the afternoon. You have a couple
hours before dusk really starts hitting.
TALIESIN: Do we want to head a couple hours or
have this unbelievably safe place. What looks like
a very safe place, although-- never mind. We're
going to-- terrible things are just going to
happen. I'm accepting it, this is going to be a
cursed trip. Do we want to stay in the haunted house?
MARISHA: Do you want to send in Frumpkin, bird
Frumpkin, see what he finds?
LIAM: Does it look like Frumpkin could make it
through that window?
MATT: Frumpkin could, yeah. And it's a one story
farmhouse. It's a modest home. Single story, maybe
from first glance, three to four rooms, and the
partially collapsed roof on one side shows you
that's it's been in disuse for some time. Who
knows how weathered it may be on the interior.
LIAM: And what hour is it?
MATT: About four or five in the afternoon.
LIAM: In the afternoon. I don't see anything in
there. I mean, you want to raid an old house or
keep going?
MARISHA: Sleep in it, is what we're thinking.
LIAM: You want to cut for the day?
SAM: We want to keep going, don't we? As fast as
we can.
TALIESIN: Well here's the question: do we just go
until we have to stop and then we camp wherever
we're going to camp, or do we find something like
this, which is possibly a little safer and then
just wake up very early and run and go further?
ASHLY: If you ask me, keep going. No place in this
area is going to be safer than any other.
MARISHA: All right, let's keep going.
LIAM: She's the local.
TALIESIN: Trust the local.
MATT: So you guys continue.
MARISHA: As we go by it-- we're headed that way,
right?
SAM: Was there anyone in that house?
MATT: You didn't get close enough to inspect.
SAM: Oh.
MARISHA: Should we check it out and see if there's
anything good?
TALIESIN: Throw a falcon through the window.
LIAM: Well that's what I was asking. You described
a window that was jagged glass, ja?
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: But if my smallish falcon went in there, is
he going to get cut up?
MATT: You can certainly try.
TALIESIN: Chimney.
LIAM: Going to get cut.
MATT: Yeah, Frumpkin's wingspan in this form is
pretty wide, wider than the window. So Frumpkin
would have to land on the window and then probably
gingerly step in.
TALIESIN: Or you could go through the chimney or
the collapsed roof.
ASHLY: Or I can just go in.
TALIESIN: We have--
ASHLY: Keg just goes to the door and kicks it
open.
MATT: You guys watch as the horse rides off to the
edge. Keg leaps off the horse.
TALIESIN: I like her.
MATT: Stomps up and just kicks the door open. The
door is already partially ajar so it (creaks) and
it falls off the top end and leans against the
back inside of the farmhouse. There's a brief
moment where you feel a couple things settle, a
slight creak and the fall of dust, and as you step
inside you can see the furniture is in disarray.
There is a layer of dust everywhere. There is a
smell of old rot and mildew. And glancing inside,
you can see there's another window on the opposite
side that's also been busted out. This place is
pretty thrashed.
ASHLY: There's nothing in here!
LIAM: Are there any books?
TALIESIN: I'm going to hop in there as well.
SAM: I'll go take a look.
LIAM: Books!
SAM: I'll look for you.
TALIESIN: We always know to look.
ASHLY: I'm not going to look for boo-- Oh god.
MATT: Are you looking for--
ASHLY: Keg sits down on one of the pieces of
furniture.
TALIESIN: I also want to see if there's-- does it
look like people have been in here recently?
MATT: Well you make an investigation check on
that. And you make an investigation check to look
for things. And if you want--
ASHLY: Can I look for booze?
SAM: 18.
MATT: Yeah, go for it.
TALIESIN: Nothing of value.
ASHLY: Three.
MATT: Oh. Sadly no booze.
ASHLY: Damn it.
MATT: What did you roll?
TALIESIN: A two.
MATT: Hard to tell in this space.
TALIESIN: That's not fair.
MATT: A lot of the furniture looks damaged, some
of it looks burned weirdly. As you, looking around
on the inside, you're rummaging around for any
possible books or anything that can be useful. You
don't find any books, you do manage to find a
bundle of unused torches, five. You have a handaxe
that's a little old and rusted, but it's still
functional. It's well made. That was left under
one of the shelves that had fallen over. And you
find a mostly filled oil lantern. While the glass
of the actual lantern is broken, it still is
pretty filled with oil. So if you wanted to-- if
you had a container, you could fill it and have a
flask of oil.
SAM: I have an extra flask.
MATT: Then you can go ahead and fill it with oil.
SAM: I will fill that with oil.
MATT: Now you have a flask of oil at your
disposal.
SAM: Nice.
TALIESIN: Is there a crest on the fireplace or
anything like that? Any markings of who might have
lived here at one point?
MATT: No crests. You glance and you do see a
small, iron symbol that looks like a star or sun.
You recognize it to be the symbol of Pelor. It
probably was a mantle of worship here, but it's,
looking on it, the metal looks scarred, strangely.
It's almost like elements of-- as you pick it up
and glance at it, the pockmark scarring on it is
strange. And the mantle around it, you can see, a
lot of the wood and stonework seems to have been
smoothed over in its damage.
TALIESIN: Can I remove the piece?
MATT: Yeah. It snaps off.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take it. Well this
obviously brought luck to whoever was here.
(quietly) I have a symbol of Pelor.
SAM: I'll just go around and ask: does anyone need
any torches? I found a bunch.
MARISHA: I'll take a couple torches.
TALIESIN: I'll take a torch.
SAM: You can each have one.
ASHLY: Sure, I'll take a torch.
MATT: You get a torch, and you get a torch.
SAM: And how about a handaxe, anyone?
LIAM: Nein.
MARISHA: Nah, I'm good.
TALIESIN: Caleb, you want to do a little scan
while we're here? See if anything tingles your fancy?
LIAM: (sighs) We're killing time but yes I do. I
take the ten minutes to take the book out of the
holster, and set it on the ground and while
everyone just sits there in the dust, I cast
Detect Magic.
MATT: Okay. So how long does it take for that?
LIAM: Ten minutes.
MATT: Ten minutes, okay.
LIAM: Wait. Wait.
TALIESIN: Wait.
MATT: Wait.
MATT: As a ritual I believe it's ten minutes,
correct?
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: All right, so Caleb-- you're having this
moment where you're waiting as he's just poring
over this tome and drawing a circle on the ground
and inscribing strange symbols in the air. It
doesn't make any sense. You're like, "Ah, magic
stuff."
ASHLY: Right.
SAM: Want another drink?
ASHLY &amp; TALIESIN: Yes.
SAM: (pouring noise)
ASHLY: Thank you.
TALIESIN: Bless you.
MATT: Everybody else roll a perception check, if
you don't mind.
SAM: Okay.
TALIESIN: Ah.
SAM: 13.
TALIESIN: 14.
ASHLY: 17.
MATT: 17, what did you get?
TALIESIN: 14.
ASHLY: (counting) 19 actually.
MARISHA: 16.
MATT: Beau and Keg, you guys hear some noises out
back. The horses are getting a little restless and
nervous. They're like (anxious chuffing) and you
see two of them are starting to clomp back a bit
away from the house. Starting to pull at the reins
that have been hitched off to the side of the home.
ASHLY: Hey, you might want to finish your fairy
shit. There's something going on outside.
MATT: At that point, trying to take in what is
sending these horses into a weird tizzy, and you
feel this faint vibration in the ground, this very
subtle quaking.
MARISHA: I'm still outside on my horse. So I'm
going to ride around to the back of the house, and
see if I see anything.
ASHLY: I'm going to run outside, and see if I see
anything.
MATT: Okay, still utilizing the same perception
checks you have, looking in both directions,
nothing. There is-- you're maybe a little over a
hundred feet or so from the tree line. Which is
what you were staying close to, to not be out in
the middle of the open field. But you don't see
anything coming or going.
TALIESIN: I'll pull a single sword and guard
Caleb.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: I'm going to jump off my horse and get on
the ground and feel the ground. Do I feel any vibrations?
MATT: You do. There's this faint (soft rumbling),
and it seems to be moving in shifts or in pulses
of intensity, getting more intense and some of
them longer and some of them shorter.
MARISHA: I-- were you going to keep going?
MATT: No, that's what you're sensing.
MARISHA: I say: Get off the ground!
TALIESIN: All right.
MARISHA: And I run, and I'm going to try and
parkour up onto the roof of this thing.
TALIESIN: I'm going to try and push Caleb awake
and go for a tree.
LIAM: Oh yeah, I hear everything.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: Okay, what--
TALIESIN: Let's go! let's go! And we're going to
head for a tree.
MATT: Okay, you guys are headed for the trees?
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah.
LIAM: Dispel the spell.
MATT: Spell's lost, Molly and Caleb start running
out of the home to the tree line. And you're just
going up on the roof?
MARISHA: Is there a roof to be got upon?
MATT: You're still on horseback, you can jump off
your horse.
MARISHA: No, I jumped off my horse to feel the
ground.
MATT: Right, right. So you're leaving your horse
there and if-- you can try and look up on the
roof. Part of it's collapsed. You don't know the
state it's in, but you can try.
MARISHA: I'll get on my horse and head for the
tree line with everyone else.
MATT: Okay (galloping). You start heading back to
the tree line. What are you guys doing?
ASHLY: So we can't tell if this is a creature or
a-- we just can feel the ground rumbling.
MATT: You can't, you haven't sensed anything.
Everyone has just started getting nervous and
rushing for the tree line. You can hear the faint
rumbling, and it is getting louder.
MARISHA: I'm going to take-- as I get closer to
the tree line-- how far away am I?
MATT: You're about 20 or so feet from the tree
line.
MARISHA: Okay, I'm going to take my horse and I'm
going to whip it around the opposite way, going
away from us, and I'm going to give it a good kick
and jump off of it. And head towards the tree line
with everybody else. I'm going to head it away
from us.
MATT: Okay. Your horse begins to head in a
southward direction.
ASHLY: I'm staying where I am, and I'm taking out
my battleaxe and my warhammer. I'm going, "Come
"out, you piece of shit!"
MATT: So you're staying by the house?
ASHLY: Yeah.
SAM: I'm staying in the house, and I'm going to
cover myself up with some detritus of different
chairs and things, near the window. I'm hiding.
MATT: Make a stealth check.
LIAM: What are we running from?
SAM: 13.
MATT: Caleb and Molly, you guys are riding towards
the treeline.
TALIESIN: We're getting some distance from
whatever.
MATT: First thing you notice is a splash of dirt
to the south. You see a small detonation out of
the earth in the direction of where your horse had
been traveling off. You see something emerge from
the ground and your horse ride up and hoof down
and begin to run back in your direction away from
it. It seemed to cut it off at the south. As it is
running towards you--
MARISHA: Come on, WC, come on!
MATT: You see something spray or splash in its
direction as it turns, and it whinnies in horrible
pain before it collapses onto the ground,
spinning.
MARISHA: Water Closet!
SAM: Aw.
MATT: It lies there on the ground, making this
horrible (squealing) sound. As you're watching,
from what you can see in the distance, its flesh
burning.
ASHLY: Is it dying?
MATT: It looks in a really bad place. At this
point in time, Molly and Caleb, you hear the
vibration as the ground bursts to the right and
left of you. Let me get the map, since that's
where we're going now.
SAM: Oh! Should we move this map?
MATT: Yeah, we're going to move this map out of
the way.
SAM: Oh boy.
TALIESIN: Oh man.
ASHLY: Ah!
SAM: Oh gosh!
ASHLY: Ah jeez!
SAM: Ashly, welcome to the show.
ASHLY: Hey, thanks for having me, guys.
SAM: It's been a while.
ASHLY: I know. It's been a minute. Since your
one-shot, right?
SAM: Yes, but that doesn't count. Weren't you on
the show-show at some point?
ASHLY: Mm-mm. This is my first time on the
show-show.
MARISHA: Yeah, she did that goblins thing with
us.
ASHLY: I've done three one-shots, but no
show-show.
SAM: (gasps) That's terrible.
ASHLY: (laughs) I'm here now.
SAM: I mean, we're rectifying it right now.
ASHLY: Goblins, The Screw Job, and then the Ass
Sailor? What was it called?
SAM: The romantic cruise thing.
ASHLY: Yeah.
SAM: Yeah.
TALIESIN: The Ass Sailor?
SAM: Yeah, The Ass Sailor was the name of the--
Oh! You were in the bar! The bar was, yes, The Ass Sailor.
LIAM: I keep looking over at you and thinking I'm
on the Jerry Lewis telethon.
SAM: I thought we were all going to dress up
tonight.
MATT: There is Caleb. There's Molly, just on the
outskirts of the forest, this way. Bursting to
each side of you, you see these large insectoid
creatures that burst out of the dirt and ground.
Beau, you are right over on this side, as you left
your horse on a southern direction there. Both
Nott and Keg are about 100 feet that direction.
MATT: Your horses are currently--
ASHLY: Oh, so they went after them?
MATT: Yeah.
ASHLY: Oh.
MATT: While you guys are over by the house, you
watch as this is going on, and there doesn't
appear to be any action immediately near you, so
you're quite a distance away.
ASHLY: Can I rush forward now?
MATT: You can. If your horse is still right by
the-- No, your horses rushed off towards the--
TALIESIN: Her horse is still there.
ASHLY: I think my horse is still there.
MATT: Your horse is still there, that's right. You
still have your horse there. You can jump on your
horse and head that direction, if you want to.
ASHLY: Okay, I'm going to do that.
MATT: All right, so you rush onto that. I need
everybody to roll initiative, please, because we
are now in combat.
ASHLY: God! I think I spent all of my 20 juice on
all these one-shots.
SAM: You got that.
ASHLY: I know, but it's still a one!
MATT: 25 to 20?
MARISHA: 20.
MATT: Beau's up first. 20 to 15?
TALIESIN: 16.
MATT: Molly's up next. 15 to ten?
SAM: Ten.
TALIESIN: It's the anti-snitch.
SAM: Nega-snitch.
MATT: Caleb, what did you get?
LIAM: Drei.
MATT: All right. And? Ooh.
ASHLY: Yeah. It makes sense. I'm riding in late.
MARISHA: You're also three?
ASHLY: I'm three, yes.
MATT: Not so great for Keg. That's all right. Top
of the round, Beau.
MARISHA: Okay. So I have this one in front of me.
Oh, man. Oh my god.
MATT: There's a third one down that way that's
maybe about 30 feet away from you that is heading
your direction. It's up to you if you want to
pursue that or come help out your friends.
MARISHA: No, I'm going to go for this one here. I
should have enough speed to clear it, 40 feet.
MATT: Yeah, you should. Yeah, you can easily get
there.
MARISHA: Pop, pop. Okay, so first attack. 15?
MATT: 15 hits.
MARISHA: Okay. I'm going to spend a ki point to
stun this thing, and hopefully it doesn't save again.
MATT: That is a six, a five plus one. It does not
save.
MARISHA: It's stunned! Finally!
MATT: As you rush up to the side, you look for
what-- and what you see now, at a close look, is
this massive almost eight to nine feet tall to its
head, insect-like, large cockroach-type creature.
Its chitinous armored body is segmented in places.
There's large antennae and these massive pincers
come out of its mouth, with its strange insectoid
eyes, this gooey saliva that's dripping out of the
center of its mouth. As it spins around towards
you, you see a moment where, between its plates
and its body, seems to be a soft, muscle-like
underbelly. You jam your fist in there and attack,
and it seems to lock up its body for a moment.
Roll damage.
MARISHA: Oh, right. Oh god, I rolled a one in
damage. So that's plus four, five damage. I'm so nervous.
MATT: All right, so that's your first strike?
MARISHA: Yeah. Then second strike. That's a
natural 14, so I'm pretty sure that hits, plus
seven, so 21. Ooh, that's an eight; it's the total
other end of the spectrum. I keep getting there.
Sorry, my brain is all over the place. 12 damage.
MATT: Nice. The first strike ends up as just
enough to cut past its defenses to stun it. As
it's reeling from the impact, your other blow,
crack! with your staff to the side, hits it, and
part of its armor cracks inward, exposing more of
its tender underbelly.
MARISHA: Okay, and then I am going to spend
another ki point and do extract aspects.
MATT: Okay, you want to learn three things from
it. What do you want to learn?
MARISHA: Three things, okay. What is its dexterity
modifier, or its dexterity saving throw?
MATT: Dexterity saving throw is zero. Plus zero.
MARISHA: Okay. Sorry. Dex zero. What is its
constitution saving throw?
MATT: Plus one.
MARISHA: Does it have any vulnerabilities?
MATT: No vulnerabilities.
MARISHA: Okay. I still have a bonus attack,
right?
MATT: Still have a bonus attack.
LIAM: Oh, wow. The suspense.
MARISHA: 13.
MATT: 13. Technically, your attacks have advantage
while it's stunned, so you get to roll again.
MARISHA: Oh, that's right! That's even worse.
MATT: Does not hit. Even while stunned, you swing
back with your fist, and your knuckles glide off
of part of the armor that is still hardened, and
it hurts your knuckles and you pull back a second,
but it's not immediately able to do anything back
at you. That's your turn, I believe?
MARISHA: Yeah. I yell to everybody and be like:
These guys don't seem very quick and shifty!
SAM: Okay.
MARISHA: Not too dex-y or anything. They seem
clumsy as fuck.
MATT: All right, that ends your turn?
MARISHA: It has shitty dexterity.
MATT: Molly, you're up next.
TALIESIN: I'm going to try something fancy. I'm
going to tap my new fancy sword, and I'm going to,
like a Pepper's ghost effect, fade out and
disappear, and move right into what would be-- get
some advantage on the one that Beau's been
hitting.
MATT: (counting) 30, so you're just out of range
of it, but you can use your movement to move up to it.
TALIESIN: I'll use my movement to get right where
I need to be.
MATT: There you go.
TALIESIN: So I have advantage now?
MATT: You do. You watch as Molly fades out of
existence and then appears, Nightcrawler
teleport-style right behind Caleb.
SAM: They killed Molly!
TALIESIN: I'll take two attacks.
MATT: Go for it.
TALIESIN: All right. First one, a natural one and
an 18, yeah, so one hits.
MATT: Yep.
TALIESIN: Ooh! That's ten damage plus three.
MATT: So 13 damage?
TALIESIN: Yeah, 13, ten plus three. Next attack.
That's a 19.
MATT: 19 hits.
TALIESIN: That's nine plus two, so that's 11.
MATT: 11 points of damage. All right, that'll do
it. With that, you teleport next to it and carve
it asunder. It screams as you slice through it all
three times, and you bisect it in the center of
where its thorax begins. Falls to the ground and
crumples into pieces, its greenish blood spilling
into the dirt and floor of the forest underbrush.
MARISHA: Clink! Take her staff and clink weapons.
TALIESIN: Yeah, we have a little clink, and turn
and face the other one.
MATT: All right, ends Molly's turn. Nott, you're
up.
TALIESIN: Actually, do I have any movement left?
MATT: You do. You have 25 feet of movement.
TALIESIN: I'm going to pull back, and I'm going to
get ten feet in front of Caleb, right between
Caleb and the insect. No, the other side of that.
Right there, to make a wall there.
MATT: Perfect. There you go. Finishing your go.
Nott, you are way off that way.
SAM: Yeah, I'm looking through the window of the
house, the homestead, and I'm 100 feet away?
MATT: You're about 100 feet away, yeah.
SAM: There's nothing I can do. I'll start walking
towards the fight.
MATT: That's 30 feet. You could dash as a bonus
action, if you wanted to.
SAM: Yeah, that'll take me 60 feet.
MATT: It does seem to lose your stealth,
unfortunately.
SAM: Sure.
MATT: You could be low in the brush, but you're
not moving quiet, carefully.
SAM: I'm going fast.
MATT: We'll say at that point, that'll get you
about to the edge of the board there.
TALIESIN: Hey, you might be able to-- oh, you
burned your move, though.
SAM: Where is Keg? Did I just run past Keg on my
way?
ASHLY: I'm on a horse.
MATT: Keg is going to be catching up to you at
this point.
SAM: Can I hold my action until Keg gets in range?
You're on a horse?
ASHLY: Yeah, I jumped on a horse. Before we rolled
initiative, real fast-like.
SAM: I'll hold my action until someone gets within
melee range of the thing, and then I will fire a crossbow.
MATT: Okay. Got you. That ends Nott's turn. It's
now their turn. As one of them that previously
killed Beau's horse--
MARISHA: Rest in peace, Water Closet.
MATT: To that side there. Another one bursts from
the ground--
SAM: Aw, come on! This is not fair.
MATT: --On this side, and skitters over this
direction. This one's going to move up to there.
If your horse is there, it can't quite move to
that space, which is frustrating it. That's fine.
It'll pull back a bit, then, and stay there.
Actually, no, because you killed the fourth one,
so it's not present. As they all turn around and,
watching its one friend get cut down, they begin
to line up, all three of them pull back and its
pincers open as it releases this splashing stream
of deep green-like liquid that sprays out in front
of it, for 30 feet, five foot wide.
TALIESIN: This is not anything I can try and give
them disadvantage on?
MATT: Nope, this is a saving throw scenario. I
need Molly and Caleb to make dexterity-- actually,
for this one, it's just Molly and the horse,
because it doesn't quite get to Caleb on that one.
TALIESIN: Dexterity saving throw?
MATT: Yep.
TALIESIN: Yay! That's a 22!
MATT: Okay, so you take half damage. There you go.
You take seven points of acid damage.
TALIESIN: I can live with that.
MATT: As it streaks across your body. Your horse
does not make the saving throw. Your horse gets
sprayed on the side and makes a horrible, pained
neighing sound as it falls to the ground, its body
now acidically burning away.
TALIESIN: Loo! No!
MATT: It's not surviving this.
TALIESIN: That's the end of Loo.
SAM: Now we're down to John, Crapper, and Toilet.
MATT: This one right here is going to spray you as
well, Molly. Another dexterity saving throw, please.
ASHLY: I really hope Toilet makes it.
TALIESIN: 11.
MATT: 11 does not succeed. You suffer 14 points of
acid damage as another stream blasts into your
back and shoulder, burning through your flesh, and
the side of your face begins to pull away and
smoke. Back here, this one is going to shoot in a
stream that hits Beau, Caleb, and the horse. I
need you to--
LIAM: Can I use my natural 20 now?
MARISHA: Dex saves?
MATT: Dex save, yes.
LIAM: That time it's a three.
MARISHA: That's a natural one.
MATT: Your horse made it, though.
MARISHA: Hey, Crapper!
MATT: That is 14 points of acid damage to both of
you. The horse takes seven. It's hurt, still
surviving. That's going to end their go. It's now
the horses' turn.
SAM: The horses' turn?
MATT: Yeah.
ASHLY: I got worse initiative than the horse?
MATT: This one's running. Yep. And it's going to
run off the battlefield there.
SAM: Run, Crapper, run!
MATT: He's dead.
SAM: Run like the wind!
MATT: All righty. That's going to end their go.
Caleb and Keg, you guys are up.
LIAM: Oh, guests first.
ASHLY: Oh, thank you. So how far can I go on this
horse?
MATT: On horseback?
ASHLY: Yes.
MATT: That's a fairly good distance speed of 60
feet.
SAM: Wow.
MATT: That'll get you up to... we'll say up to
there. Pretty much right to the edge of where that
is there.
ASHLY: So I can't get up on any of these boys?
MATT: I'll say because a horse doesn't get any
attack on-- and it would normally get an action,
I'll let the horse dash.
ASHLY: Ey!
SAM: That's nice.
MATT: So that'll get you right up next to this
one.
ASHLY: Okay. So can I leap off the horse and come
down with the axe?
MARISHA: Yes!
MATT: Yeah. Just for the hell of it, make an
acrobatics check for me.
ASHLY: Okay! Why not?
MATT: What could possibly go wrong?
ASHLY: Natural 20.
(cheering)
SAM: That's like Cirque du Soleil shit.
MATT: So as the horse is galloping, you watch--
ASHLY: She goes like this.
MATT: You watch as Keg gets up on top, holding the
reins. (hoofbeats) Pulls the warhammer out and
then at the right moment just leaps off while
pulling the battleaxe out, doing a flip in the
air, landing and coming down with both weapons. Go
ahead and make your attacks on the opposite side
of it.
ASHLY: 17?
MATT: 17 hits.
ASHLY: And then the other attack is an 18
naturally.
MATT: Yeah, that hits. So go ahead and roll both
those damage.
ASHLY: So that's six... and then help me do math,
12.
MATT: Six and 12?
ASHLY: Yeah.
MATT: Nice. Still have your bonus action.
ASHLY: So I get to attack again, right?
MATT: Yeah, because you're dual wielding. So you
attack, attack, and then attack.
ASHLY: Eight plus seven. Does that hit?
MATT: 15. Still hits.
ASHLY: Hey!
MATT: Yep. Armor class of...
ASHLY: Nine.
MATT: Nine points of damage. Oof! So as you come
down, both weapons (whack) clanging onto it, you
hear the armor crack from underneath and you watch
as its light green blood begin to seep through the
wounds you left. As it turns around, this weird
clicking, sucking sound out of its face, you laugh--
ASHLY: Shut up!
MATT: --and slam it in the side of the face with
your warhammer. (screech) It pulls back and it's
now bleeding out of its jaw as it looks pretty
hurt.
ASHLY: Nice.
SAM: I will release my bolt. At disadvantage
because more than 30 feet away.
MATT: It is, yes.
SAM: (inhale through teeth) Ooh, that's only a
12.
MATT: 12 misses, unfortunately. (ping) The bolt
streaks off-- actually, it hits the side of Keg's
armor--
ASHLY: Hey!
MATT: Shearing off.
SAM: Sorry, sorry! That's-- that's on me.
ASHLY: Who are you aiming for?
SAM: I did not--
ASHLY: It's nine feet tall!
SAM: I'm sorry! I'm just drunk. I'm drunk, I'm day
drunk.
TALIESIN: This is your perfect opportunity for
"New crossbow, who dis?"
(laughter)
SAM: Oh yeah, I got a new crossbow.
MATT: All right. Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: Yeah. I go rummaging through my pack really
quick and I pull out a licorice root and stick it
into my mouth and bite onto and I start muttering
to myself and I say, "Pick up the pace," and I
cast Haste on Beauregard.
MATT: All righty.
MARISHA: Aw, I hate licorice. (groaning) Why is
that taste in my mouth? That's weird.
LIAM: And then I will move as far as I can towards
Nott.
MATT: All right. So you are Hasted there. You're
going to move as far as you can to Nott.
LIAM: Towards Nott, ja.
MATT: There you go.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: That finishes your turn. Top of the round,
Beau you're up and hasted.
MARISHA: (panting) I'm going to turn to this guy
and I'm going to lay into him.
MATT: You step around the trunk of the tree.
MARISHA: So that means, do I get three attacks?
Base attacks?
MATT: You get three base attacks, correct.
TALIESIN: Woo.
MATT: (singing) Haste. (hits)
MARISHA: (hits) First one!
LIAM: Advantage on dex saves too.
MARISHA: And advantage on dex saves. 15.
MATT: That hits.
TALIESIN: It will come in handy with these--
LIAM: Yes.
MARISHA: That is... nine damage. Nine! Second one.
Ooh. Yeah, yeah. that's 16.
MATT: All righty.
MARISHA: And that is... 11 damage.
MATT: Nice. Third strike.
MARISHA: That's a natural 14.
MATT: Yep, that'll hit.
TALIESIN: Yeah!
MARISHA: Okay. Seven damage.
MATT: Seven points of damage on that, fantastic.
And you still have your bonus.
MARISHA: Yep and I'm going to spend a ki point
again to do flurry of blows and get two more attacks.
MATT: Two more attacks.
(cheering)
MATT: Hasted monks. (blows) Just full on Wang
Chung over here.
MARISHA: Mm. One's a natural 19, the other's a
two.
MATT: So you do get one more hit. So roll damage
for that.
LIAM: Get it.
MARISHA: Aw, yeah! 11 damage.
MATT: 11 damage.
MARISHA: No, ten damage. Sorry.
MATT: That's okay.
LIAM: Right in the ball sack.
MARISHA: Is he dead?
MATT: That'll do it.
(cheering)
MATT: You just spin around, the adrenaline pumping
through your veins from Caleb's spell instilling
you with unnatural speed. You rush forward and
just (hits) and just do the fastest full on combo.
You watch as she basically pummels this giant nine
foot insect creature into submission.
MARISHA: (hits)
MATT: It falls to the ground as you're just
pummelling its face until it eventually collapses
and sputters out the remaining breath before it
stops moving.
LIAM: Street Fighter combo.
TALIESIN: Epic combo.
MATT: Fantastic. You still have...
MARISHA: Oh, movement!
MATT: 75 feet of movement.
SAM: Oh wow.
ASHLY: Holy cow.
SAM: Because you're fast.
MATT: Because you're hasted.
MARISHA: Oh my god.
TALIESIN: It's a fresh one.
MARISHA: I am going to make my way behind this
guy... if I can.
MATT: Oh, yeah.
SAM: (car zoom)
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: Wow.
MATT: You go around the tree and then tap it on
the shoulder.
TALIESIN: Circle the tree a couple times, holding
onto it.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Just to be a dick.
MARISHA: (singing) Singing in the rain.
MATT: All right. That finishes your turn, Beau?
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: All right. Molly, you're up next.
TALIESIN: I'm going to run and get into flanking
position with this one over here.
MATT: All righty.
TALIESIN: Thumpety, thumpety.
MATT: So move over and push into this space--
TALIESIN: Yep.
MATT: Because it's an ally, I'll let you move into
the horse's space there.
TALIESIN: And now we're going to take a slice at
this one. And that's... that'll do it. (counting)
25 to hit.
MATT: That'll hit.
TALIESIN: So. (counting) Ten plus four, 14.
MATT: 14 points of damage, nice.
TALIESIN: And again. 19 and a one.
MATT: That'll hit.
TALIESIN: Why I love advantage.
MATT: Advantage is nice.
TALIESIN: And that's... 14 points of damage.
SAM: Wow.
ASHLY and MATT: Ooh.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: It's got to be dead by now, right?
MATT: No, it's still alive.
(groans)
TALIESIN: How is that-- the one that... really?
MATT: That one hadn't taken any damage.
TALIESIN: It had!
MATT: Oh wait, no! Oh sorry. I was writing that
down under the wrong one.
TALIESIN: (explosions, screeching)
MATT: My apologies. Yes, it is dead.
ASHLY: (laughter)
MATT: I was writing it under the wrong one. So as
you dart off behind, the first two strikes you
unleash carve it into two pieces. You watch as the
creature, as it's turning around to hiss and rear
back, its pincers about to carve into your face,
you watch as the head just rolls off of its body
and there behind you see Molly standing there with
the blades out.
ASHLY: Whoa.
TALIESIN: I needed this. And I'm going to hide
behind the tree trunk from the other one.
MATT: Okay, you're going to-- right there?
TALIESIN: Last of my movement. Yeah.
MATT: Okay. That finishes your go, Molly. Nott,
you're up.
SAM: I'll move within range, crossbow bolt range.
You know what?
MATT: The inner range is what?
SAM: 30.
MATT: It's just out of your 30 range.
SAM: No, you know what? I'll stay put and I will
cast... I will cast Silent Image in a flanking
position to Beau. And I will create a second Beau
just standing there in front of the creature and
try to help Beau.
MATT: So mysteriously...
MARISHA: It's a different color palette? Color
palette swaps.
TALIESIN: It's Street Fighter-style.
SAM: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Beau and Ken.
(laughter)
MATT: Perfect. All right, so. As the image of Beau
appears before, just standing there quietly
shifting, holding its space.
SAM: And I'll bonus action hide, just behind that
little--
MATT: You can use your movement to go behind and
then hide if you want to.
SAM: Sure, great.
MATT: All right, so go ahead and roll a stealth
check.
SAM: Natural 20.
(cheering)
TALIESIN: Oh! This is cool.
MATT: You teleport through campaigns. You're
somehow in campaign one.
SAM: Great. Ooh.
MATT: All right. That finishes Nott's turn.
SAM: It's not as emotionally deep as this one.
TALIESIN: Give it time, give it time.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: Nice patronus, by the way.
LIAM: Time travel too far.
SAM: Yep.
MATT: So it's now that guy's turn. Currently
surrounded by Beaus--
TALIESIN: Too many Beaus.
MATT: Too many Beaus. It's going to go ahead and
see if it can gather which one is the real threat.
Rolls a natural 19. So even with its low
intelligence, it can discern the nature of which--
TALIESIN: That palette swap's terrible.
(laughter)
MATT: Really? Puce? It's going to go ahead and
make a bite attack towards you, Beau.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: That is going to be a 12 to hit?
MARISHA: Miss.
MATT: Yeah. It just reaches out with its pincers.
You manage to go ahead and duck out of the side
and slam your bo into it, causing it to just
completely miss you. It rears back. It does not
regain its acid spray and that's its turn.
SAM: Wow. That's great.
MATT: Both horses just go running off the board
into the fray. Or away from the fray.
TALIESIN: We have oats, they'll come back.
SAM: Maybe.
MATT: All right, that brings us to Keg.
ASHLY: Can I get there with the 25 feet speed?
MATT: You can.
ASHLY: Delightful. I'm going to smack him.
SAM: Nope.
ASHLY: I won't smack him. I'll try again to smack
him.
SAM: Ooh.
ASHLY: I will smack him. And then I'm going to do
nine damage to that boy.
MATT: Nine damage to that one.
ASHLY: As a bonus action, I'll smack him again. I
will smack him, and then I'll smack him one more
time, and that's going to be seven damage.
MATT: Seven points of damage. The first one swings
wide, no impact. The second one slams as a
backhand into its armor, causing it to crack.
Using that opening, you pull back with your
battleaxe and jam it into the wound, carving in
deeper. It's looking pretty hurt, but it's still
standing. Anything else you wanted to do in your
turn?
ASHLY: No, I'm going to hang.
MATT: You're going to hang back?
SAM: You're going to keg stand there?
ASHLY: I'm going to keg stand there. I'm proud of
you, Sam.
MATT: That's what happens when you get Emmy award
winners at the table. You get that.
ASHLY: That's the height that we can accomplish
though.
MATT: Yeah, that's about it. You've peaked at this
point, we're done after this. It's all downhill.
SAM: There's horses around, there might be a pony
keg at some point, I don't know. We're going to
work on it.
MATT: We'll work on it. That ends your go, Keg.
Caleb, you're up.
LIAM: I feel the wind and then shoot three Magic
Missiles out of my hand at the thing.
MATT: As you finish your attacks, you glance over
your shoulder as you hear this sound. You look in
the distance; you see Caleb-- who at this point
has been this dirty hobo in the background-- all
of a sudden, fire these three mystical arcane
missiles that glow and arc off anime-missile
style, through the woods, avoiding trees, and all
three slamming into the sides of this creature. Go
ahead and roll damage.
LIAM: That's a four and also (counting) six-- I've
got to change this dice, that is a ten total.
MATT: Ten total. (multiple impacts) It sits there
for a second after the impact, leaving these large
craters in the side of its chitinous armor where
it's cracked and bits of liquid are spilling out
of it. It looks heavily wounded, but it's still
alive.
LIAM: Was ist los?
MATT: You're going to stay where you're put?
LIAM: I will go crouch by Nott.
MATT: Revealing her position.
SAM: Hey! Get away from me! No!
LIAM: I didn't make any noise. I just sit down.
MATT: That's all good. That finishes Caleb's go.
Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: First attack. 14.
MATT: That just hits.
MARISHA: Wait, no, 13. Sorry, my math is wonky
today. That doesn't hit, does it?
MATT: 13 does not hit.
SAM: There's no advantage because my Silent Image
is there?
MATT: Unfortunately, no. Nothing is actually
flanking it.
MARISHA: Second attack. That hits, that's 18.
MATT: 18 hits.
MARISHA: That is-- what did I roll on that one? I
forgot. I don't know what it was. Sorry, 15 damage
for the first one.
MATT: 15 points of damage on the first hit?
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: Beau, how do you want to do this? As you and
Keg are both there clamoring on two sides of it,
the image of yourself on the opposite end, what do
you want to do?
MARISHA: As I see Keg bash it in a little bit of
its insect armor, I take my staff and I get up
under its exoskeleton and I start prying it off
and I punch it to death.
MATT: As you crowbar off a large part of its
exterior insectoid armor skeleton, it exposes this
horrible yellowish, sinewy muscle interior as all
the striations are pulling off of the armor. As
it's exposed, it tries to go in to protect itself,
but you're too quick, and you zero in and plunge
your fist into its body as it falls to the ground
with a horrible sucking, guttural, slimy death and
pull it out.
TALIESIN: If you squeeze and twist, you can make
it stand up again and you can make the arms move.
MATT: Technically--
LIAM: (singing) Hello my baby!
ASHLY: You guys nasty, I like it.
MARISHA: Does anybody have a Wet-Nap?
TALIESIN: Use the ground.
SAM: I'm going to take off running after the
horses to see if I can catch up with them.
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Please check on Water Closet!
TALIESIN: This is a dead horse or can it be
revived?
MATT: You can go ahead and make a medicine check.
TALIESIN: I'm going to make a medicine check for
my horse.
LIAM: Does it have Jester's shield on it?
SAM: Didn't we leave the shield?
MATT: No, the shield was strapped onto one of the
horses.
TALIESIN: My medicine check is nine.
MATT: You're not sure but it looks dire.
ASHLY: Can I check?
MATT: Sure, if you want to go ahead and step up to
the horse. Make a medicine check.
ASHLY: 13?
MATT: Unless this horse gets some serious
treatment, it's done.
LIAM: It's suffering, put it down.
ASHLY: I take my axe and I slam it down on its
neck.
MATT: Instantly mercy killed.
TALIESIN: Neigh.
MATT: Nott, you do manage to catch up to the other
horses. They didn't go full sprint into infinity.
They slowed down and once they got a safe distance
from the action-- you manage to recover two of
them. There's still your horse by the house; you
still have three horses.
MARISHA: Check Water Closet.
SAM: John, Crapper, and Toilet. Water Closet's
dead.
MARISHA: Oh, he's very dead.
MATT: You can go check.
TALIESIN: Water Closet is possibly new pocket
jerky at this point.
SAM: We can go check Water Closet I guess?
MATT: Go ahead and make a medicine check as you
approach.
SAM: That would be a three.
MATT: Water Closet looks not long for this world.
SAM: I'm going to try to cut out the tongue. Maybe
that's something I can eat later.
MATT: Okay. Water Closet is still technically
holding onto life.
SAM: Ugh. I don't know that.
MATT: No. Water Closet's final horrible moment is
its riders cutting its tongue out.
SAM: (sobbing)
ASHLY: Why do you hang out with this guy-- lady.
MARISHA: He came up with this one; they were a
package deal.
ASHLY: Why do you hang out with it?
LIAM: She is extremely useful.
ASHLY: At cutting out horse tongues?
SAM: (eating noises)
LIAM: Among other things, yeah.
ASHLY: That's the most fucked-up shit I've ever
seen, and I grew up in Shadycreek Run.
MARISHA: We have three horses, and there's five of
us.
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: Can we double up?
MATT: It's possible.
MARISHA: Nott doubles up with Caleb.
SAM: Maybe the two smalls should--
ASHLY: I'm not going on a horse with her.
SAM: What? I've bonded with its essence now.
ASHLY: I'm not going on a horse with her!
TALIESIN: Keg can ride with me, this is not a
problem. If you want.
ASHLY: Yeah, that's fine.
SAM: I've got the booze.
ASHLY: You know, for the first time in my life,
I'm willing to sacrifice booze--
LIAM: Scared straight.
ASHLY: Scared straight. You can take that shit on
the road.
TALIESIN: You're already taking a good hard look
at your decisions. This is good.
MATT: As you guys begin to try and work out your
arrangements and the horses, unfortunately, due to
the heavy nature of your armor and the broad form
and heavy body of Keg, it looks like you won't be
able to fit Keg and one other individual on a
horse. But there are other combinations that might work.
MARISHA: Nott, team up with Caleb.
TALIESIN: I'll ride with you then.
SAM: Would that work?
TALIESIN: You get your own horse.
ASHLY: Ay.
MARISHA: Can me and Molly team up?
MATT: You and Molly can do it, yeah.
MARISHA: Okay.
TALIESIN: I have their armor.
SAM: Wait, we have three-- yeah, okay.
TALIESIN: Yeah, that'll do it.
MATT: Keg's about as dense as two of you.
TALIESIN: That's fair.
(laughter)
SAM: I noticed back there that you were using your
hands and weapon stuff and things. You're not a
healer or anything?
ASHLY: You cracked the case, my man.
TALIESIN: Truly nothing escapes your astute
observation.
SAM: You don't have any potions of healing or
anything that could maybe heal someone if anyone
needing healing would--
ASHLY: Who needs healing?
SAM: No one now, but in the future-- it's a
frequent occurrence for us.
TALIESIN: Going to go back to that cabin and take
a short rest for a minute.
SAM: Do any of us have any potions?
MARISHA: I have a potion.
LIAM: I have a potion. I start to look to see what
Jester's got inside the haversack other than the
dodecahedron and our tent.
MATT: Unless I am mistaken--
SAM: She had a Greater Healing potion, however, I
don't know if she had that on her or kept it in
the sack.
TALIESIN: It would have been in the sack.
LIAM: She had a Heroes' Feast in there, I think.
MATT: I'm going to go ahead and check one element
of this because it will--
SAM: I think we have her notebook in the locker.
TALIESIN: Do you want me to go look at the
locker?
MARISHA: Yeah, her notebook might even be--
SAM: No, I felt around in there.
MARISHA: Oh, it might be in the locker then.
ASHLY: What time is it now, after all the
bug-battling?
MATT: The battle was pretty quick. You still have
probably another hour and a half, two hours,
before sundown.
ASHLY: Of daylight? Is there anything to harvest
from those bugs?
MATT: If you want to go ahead and take a shot at
trying--
SAM: Did the light just change in here?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: It was in battle mode, did you notice?
ASHLY: Ooh, fancy!
TALIESIN: Look at the fancy.
SAM: The light is moving.
MATT: New toys.
TALIESIN and MARISHA: New toys.
MATT: I've wanted to have a setup like that since
high school. And now I can.
MARISHA: 12.
MATT: You've never encountered these creatures;
you don't have much of an understanding of their
anatomy beyond the experience you had extracting
the aspects from them, which actually would give
you a little better idea of their physicality in
some places. Because you looked at their
constitution and dexterity, I'll say that you know
that the tendons and some of the muscle sinew that
they use in the inside of their body is very
strong and very tight and can be used as cording.
It can be used for anything that would involve a
very strong piece of cord or rope.
MARISHA: What about their acidic venom situation,
their venom sacs?
LIAM: Caleb comes up behind.
MATT: That could possibly be harvested. It's a
dangerous process, you can certainly try.
MARISHA: Like I might die trying?
MATT: I don't know, you can certainly try. It's
trying to carefully remove a giant sac of natural
acid from a creature's body. You want to roll the
dice?
TALIESIN: Are you feeling lucky, punk?
LIAM: Hold on. Here, there's the dodecahedron.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: All right. Well, you have to pull it out.
You have to remove it.
MARISHA: I did.
SAM: Just stare back.
MATT: You watch as they pull this pack out and
Beau, reaching in, pulls out this strange,
12-sided construction. It looks like it's some
sort of an opaque crystal, almost like a marble
type of color. It's grayish and it's undulating
with some slight pulsing light, like a faint
heartbeat, with these golden handles affixed to
it. As she pulls it out and begins to focus on it,
there's this moment of distant meditation before
she comes back with a breath and places it back
in. It's a strange sight.
ASHLY: You're all into some freaky shit.
LIAM: Made by gnomes.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Do you have a blade to harvest?
LIAM: I have a dagger. Here, use mine.
MARISHA: I do have a dagger.
LIAM: I shoot out the globules of light to float
around the corpse.
MARISHA: And I put my goggles on. Safety first.
LIAM: It's very bright. Super bright.
MATT: Super bright right now.
MARISHA: Pull up the hood and I buckle myself up.
I take my scarf from around my waist and tie it
around me for a facemask.
LIAM: You can do this, and I walk twenty feet
back.
MATT: I will say, because of your understanding of
its body from extracting the aspects of it, do you
wish to utilize nature or medicine for this roll?
Giving you the choice.
MARISHA: Medicine, it's higher.
MATT: Go ahead and make your check.
MARISHA: Just a straight check?
MATT: Just a straight check. Skill check with
medicine bonus, whatever that may be.
MARISHA: Natural 20!
ASHLY and TALIESIN: Whoa!
TALIESIN: Finally!
MARISHA: I'm back!
MATT: You've seen Beau be pretty precise in combat
and pinpointing the weak elements of an opponent's
body. This is almost poetry. The surgical
precision in which Beauregard takes the dagger and
cuts, pulls, rips, pulls and lifts. Tucks, finds,
cuts, removes, and within a matter of about a
minute, a minute and a half, there is a sac about
the size of a basketball-- the ends have been tied
off and feels like a water balloon.
ASHLY: Keg is aroused.
MARISHA: Got the sac, now what? Do you have any
more flasks or anything to put it in?
SAM: I have a couple of empty vials, but they're
small. I've worked with chemicals before, I could
try to put this acid in the vials and stopper
them.
MARISHA: If we poke-- if you have a little tube or
something that is straw, a little bamboo straw,
put it in there, and go down?
SAM: Sure. Would three vials of acid be useful to
us?
MARISHA: I think it would be useful to you for
sure.
SAM: Sure, all right. I'll try to make a little
needle prick in the bladder and try to pour them
into these vials that I got from The Gentleman.
MARISHA: Can I help with my natural 20?
MATT: Make a dexterity check, just a straight
dexterity check.
SAM: Okay. That's 16.
MATT: That's good. You do not just puncture a
balloon while looking directly at it. You manage
to find one of the areas that taper within this
organ, whatever it is that was removed, and manage
to siphon it off in a way where you can fill the
rest of your vials, however many empty vials you have.
SAM: I have three from The Gentleman.
MATT: Yeah. You have three vials of acid now.
SAM: Okay. Great. Would you like one? You did
this.
MARISHA: I think they're better to be used on your
bolts and things like that.
SAM: I don't know how I would put it on there.
MARISHA: Can't he--?
MATT: It's more of a tossed weapon or used to
dissolve things.
SAM: Why don't you take one?
MARISHA: All right, I'll take one.
SAM: Molly, do you want some acid? Do you want to
drop some acid?
TALIESIN: I feel like if you give it to me, I'm
going to end up dropping it and it's not really
going to be that useful.
SAM: Caleb, do you want--?
LIAM: You're far more dexterous than I.
SAM: How about I'll give you two, and I'll keep
one since I already have one that I made.
ASHLY: You didn't ask me if I wanted some acid.
LIAM: Are you dexterous?
ASHLY: Yeah?
LIAM: Show us.
ASHLY: 15. I do a back flip, I don't know.
(laughter)
ASHLY: It's acrobatics, but fuck it.
LIAM: I'd say she earned one, yeah?
SAM: All right. Here you go.
ASHLY: Thank you.
SAM: Are we friends again?
ASHLY: Were we ever?
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I'm very happy.
MATT: You guys have taken a short time-- it's
taken about half an hour or so for you to go
through this process of extracting that and
carefully filling these vials and discussing
amongst yourselves who would get what. You have
about an hour until dusk hits.
TALIESIN: I say we just camp at the house, at this
point. I need rest and we have... Not going to get
much further.
MARISHA: It's fine with me. You guys fine with
that?
LIAM: Short rest, you said? Sorry, was reading my
book.
TALIESIN: I say we wake up early. It's going to be
dusk in less than an hour.
ASHLY: The house feels a little exposed to me.
TALIESIN: Well...
ASHLY: Plus all the weird buggy guys were around
there. If there are more, they would come back.
LIAM: I'm sorry, did we get any horses? Just
enough to fit us all on, condensed, right.
SAM: What time is it? Sorry.
MATT: About an hour until dusk.
SAM: Oh, well, we can make some more headway on
the road and then go at full dark. We could camp
at full dark.
TALIESIN: Wherever we happen to find ourselves.
ASHLY: Are we within range of the forests?
MATT: Yes, about here is where the forest begins,
and that is where you began your confrontation.
You're right on the edge of the forest.
LIAM: I think we should continue to make time as
well.
MARISHA: Okay. Can I climb a tree and do I see
anything on the horizon in where we're going, like
another tree clearing that looks like it might be
up ahead?
MATT: Make an athletics check.
MARISHA: Athletics?
MATT: Yes.
MARISHA: 24.
SAM: Jesus.
MARISHA: Rolled an 18.
MATT: Like a monkey that was raised in the jungle,
you watch Beauregard leap from branch to bough,
effortlessly diving through this forest.
ASHLY: Keg is aroused.
MARISHA: Whatever you cast on me, Caleb, is
like... I feel so good!
MATT and LIAM: It's gone.
MARISHA: But the lingering effects, you know, I'm
in the afterglow!
MATT: The afterglow of Haste.
TALIESIN: It was just tea. We just gave you tea to
smoke, it wasn't really...
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Herbal tea, man. Just chamomile tea.
MARISHA: So relaxed.
MATT: You make it up into the canopy. Make a
perception check.
MARISHA: Okay. 17.
MATT: Even at the tallest tree, most around you,
all you can see are other trees of varying
heights. Looking in the northeast direction,
beyond where you just came from, you can see the
house, you can see bits of natural rock that maybe
had either been left by some long-ago volcanic
detonation in the distance, or pushed up through
the ground by tectonic movement, you're not sure.
You see elements of stone that have broken through
bits of the grass and open fields, part of the
natural fields here. You haven't actually traveled
this far north, so it's unfamiliar topography to
you-- you've only heard about it-- but it's
interesting to see that the further north you get,
the more rocky the terrain seems to get in the
direction you're traveling. You do see, far in the
distance, what could possibly be the road that
you're getting to, but it's a ways off to get to
that direction.
MARISHA: I climb back down. I say we gather some
branches, some scrap wood for firewood, in case
this might be the only forest we come across in a
while. See as far as we can get, maybe we can hide
under a rock for shelter or something.
TALIESIN: I've still got my tent, so, sure.
MARISHA: I shoved one in the haversack too.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: You guys continue for the next hour or so,
skirting along the forest.
MARISHA: I gathered some stuff.
LIAM: As they leave, Caleb scooches Frumpkin on
the head and says: You know, she always forgets
about you, but I do not.
MARISHA: It's such a quiet bird. I'm used to very
loud birds.
MATT: You guys gather some kindling, get back to
your three horses and your comparatively
uncomfortable riding arrangement, and continue on
for another hour on the outside of the forest
before the sun does eventually vanish. The graying
sky is getting darker and darker, the faint bits
of orange that poke through-- it's not a beautiful
sunset, you only catch the faint hues that manage
to push through the gloom, but the sky grows dark
enough to the point where you think you should set
up camp. Are you setting up camp at the edge of
the forest, on the inside of the forest, on the
outside of the forest, what's your preference?
LIAM: Off inside, I think.
ASHLY: Yeah, I think inside as well.
MATT: Okay. You guys set up camp. Who's keeping
first watch?
LIAM: I will.
TALIESIN: I'll also do first watch.
LIAM: I will begin it by putting out the silver
thread around the group.
MATT: You guys want to both individually roll
perception or one aid the other? With the help action.
SAM: Help action!
LIAM: Individual.
TALIESIN: Individual.
LIAM: Because I can't decide.
MATT: Go for it.
TALIESIN: Natural 20.
LIAM: Better than my 16.
MATT: Plus?
TALIESIN: Oh. Plus... three. 23.
MATT: All righty. As everyone's settling in,
begins to find their initial portions of rest, you
guys have your small fire there on the edge.
Molly, you glance off deeper into the forest...
and your eyes, even at this distance, catch a
faint glimmer of matching flame. You see a faint
bit of firelight sparkling about 200 feet deeper
into the forest.
TALIESIN: There's another... there's another
campfire.
LIAM: How far away?
TALIESIN: 200 feet, give or take.
LIAM: Uh...
TALIESIN: Do you want to send a bird, maybe?
LIAM: I would send one of two things. One is our
little friend here, or--
TALIESIN: She's sleeping.
LIAM: Or I... lose the peregrine and go back to
something else a little less noticeable.
TALIESIN: I'd say go ahead. I figure if they were
meaning us any harm they wouldn't set a fire.
LIAM: And it's dark out now, yeah?
MATT: It is dark, yeah. It's probably pushing
10:00, 10:30.
LIAM: (sighs) I would know if an owl-- Owls can
see in the dark?
MATT: Owls are nocturnal yes. You would know
that.
LIAM: Yeah, okay. Okay. I'm going to change
Frumpkin again, out of peregrine into an owl. I
will mark that off on my supplies. I've got one
more after this that I can do.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: We get a long rest.
LIAM: And uh-- No, I mean I need incense but
anyway--
MATT: You don't have your long rests yet, so don't
mark that yet.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LIAM: Yeah. I send Frumpkin tree to tree in that
direction. Maybe, 20 feet and wait a moment and
then another 20 feet.
MATT: Okay. So as Frumpkin begins to crawl through
the forest in the direction of the fire, we're
going to go ahead and take a break.
SAM: Oh. Wait, no. What? Huh? Oh.
(laughter)
MATT: Yeah. It's almost nine o'clock so we're
going to take a break.
SAM: Okay.
MATT: So we'll be back here in a few minutes.
Thank you for coming along with us for this bit so
far. We'll be back to continue from where we left
off there. We do have our first giveaway at our
first break in the new studio.
(cheers)
MATT: There are some changes and such so reminding
you guys that moving forward we'll be doing the
Wyrmwood giveaway at the Critical Role Twitch
chat. So you need to head to
twitch.tv/criticalrole for the break to enter. If
you're watching on Alpha or Geek &amp; Sundry just
switch over and you can head on back over when
you're done. Right now, the offer, once again,
only stands for people in the US and Canada
excluding Quebec because of weird giveaway rules
and laws. However, tonight's prize is a Wyrmwood
cherry dice tower with this fantastic cartography
burned in of maps designed by our fantastic Deven
Rue, who you may recognize, who's done the map of
the Dwendalian Empire that we have here as well as
other amazing bits and also designed the compass
rose on our map. She's amazing. Her work's amazing
and while this isn't available with Wyrmwood yet,
keep an eye out because cool stuff like this might
be showing up more often. So this will be given
away to some lucky person in the break. Need to go
into the Critical Role Twitch chat and enter only
one time. Enter the key phrase "Kegstand." So
enter it once. Magnets, it's magic. So enter it
once; more than once, you'll be disqualified and
we'll announce the winner here at the end of the
break so we'll see you here in a few minutes.
ASHLY: That's cute.
SAM: Wait, which chat?
MATT: Critical Role.
SAM: Okay, cool. You've said that. You said that,
right?
MATT: I did. Like twice. All righty. Break time
guys, let's go.
MATT: Welcome back, everybody. We have our winner
of our giveaway for this fantastic Deven Rue
map-etched dice tower by Wyrmwood. It is
GottaBeKD18. Congratulations, GottaBeKD18, you are
the winner! Danoba will get your contact
information and we'll get this sent out to you
ASAP. Well done! You've won the first giveaway in
the new studio. I am excited for you to try it
out; it's quite delightful. All righty. Bringing
us back into where we left off. Frumpkin wanders
off through the darkened forest.
SAM: (hooting)
MARISHA: Oh yeah, he's an owl now. He's so cute.
SAM: One, two, three.
MARISHA: Mr. Owl was a dick. It was a dick move.
ASHLY: Yeah, it really was.
MATT: One, two, three, fuck you. As Frumpkin
begins--
[owl hooting]
SAM: What the fuck was that, Matt?! There was an
owl that just hooted on the soundtrack.
MATT: Yeah. We're in a forest at night, guys.
Frumpkin makes his way through the dark tree
bottoms, eventually coming upon-- actually, this
would be a more creepy setting for this, I think.
That's better. Frumpkin slowly comes upon the
warmth of this distant fire, closer and closer
until coming around the corner, seeing a small
fire heating a cauldron of some kind, some metal
bowl. A bit of steam is rising off of whatever
liquid is in the interior. You see an elderly
woman in darker, tattered clothing that drapes off
of the body, hunched but tall, very tall, like six
and a half feet tall at a hunch. Make a perception
check for Frumpkin, please, at this distance with disadvantage.
LIAM: With disadvantage?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: Okay. Perception, you said? 14.
MATT: The skin of this woman is a faint gray
color, almost a gray-blue tint. The hair is this
matted mess of tangled white and gray that is
pulled back and tied behind the head where it
cascades over the shoulders. The ears are long and
pointed, out to the sides a bit. The nose is wide
and pressed up into the face. She is going back
and forth from this little hovel that's on the
opposite side, that's built between two trees: a
large thick one and another that seems to have
fallen and come to rest at an angle next to it. In
that small cranny between the two trees, you can
see this little hut built of thatch and sticks and
rope to construct this little home. It's almost
like an arch that's holding it up. Near the ground
of this cauldron, you see a child of some kind
that is sitting on the ground, holding knees to
its chest. It looks to be a boy.
LIAM: Knees to chest?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: Okay. She is paying him no mind at the
moment?
MATT: At the moment, no. It looks like she is
going to and from this little homestead and
putting things into this cauldron.
LIAM: I whisper in fragments what I saw through
Frumpkin's eyes the whole time, but I'm still
looking and I can't hear anybody.
MARISHA: Do you have any awake?
TALIESIN: Just us.
LIAM: Oh, right, I would be holding onto Molly.
This is reminding me of stories that my mother
told me when I was very young. Not good ones,
things to scare me into following the rules. I
come out of it.
TALIESIN: A child?
LIAM: And a woman, or not.
TALIESIN: That does have a vibration, doesn't it?
I'm not at my best right now. If they're human,
even if they're friendly, I'm not the first face
you'd want to see.
LIAM: Quickly. Have to think here, because
everyone else is sleeping and that didn't look
good for that little boy, but then it doesn't
really help us with what we are doing, but then
the child. What to do?
TALIESIN: You have a friendly owl.
LIAM: I go back into Frumpkin to see what's going
on.
MATT: Okay. You watch now as the woman takes a
small clay cup and dips it into this cauldron and
pulls out this steaming mass of liquid that she's
contained within it, turns to the child, walks
over and kneels down beside. Places the long
fingers along the shoulder and hands the cup to
the child. The child takes it, looking at her, and
slowly sips from it. Burns the mouth a little bit.
LIAM: I swat at Molly and say: Wake the others.
TALIESIN: Fine. I start quietly waking.
MARISHA, SAM, and ASHLY: What? What?
TALIESIN: I somehow woke everyone at the exact
same time. It's one of my many powers.
SAM: We were all spooning.
TALIESIN: Left hand, right hand, tail. I got it
all working at once. We've got a bit of a
situation outside.
SAM: Where?
TALIESIN: It's going to require some delicacy.
SAM: Is Caleb gone?
TALIESIN: Caleb's dead. It's all over.
SAM: No!
MARISHA: You're looking at him.
SAM: Okay. I didn't know if he was a phantom or
something.
ASHLY: What's going on?
TALIESIN: There's a boy, there's an old woman.
LIAM: I'm not sure, but I think there is a young
child that's in danger there. We seemed to care
about the bird child, maybe we care about this
one. I don't know.
SAM: Of course.
ASHLY: Why do we give a shit?
SAM: It's a baby.
ASHLY: Ah, fuck.
LIAM: We got to act right now.
ASHLY: What does the woman look like?
MARISHA: I'm going to groggily stumble over, put
on my googles as I start stumbling towards the light.
LIAM: She looked dead. She did not look natural.
TALIESIN: I'm going to stay 30 feet behind and try
and stealth.
MATT: Beauregard, you're leading up?
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm going to walk and I'm like:
It's bright enough, and I got to pee anyway. I'll
be right back.
MATT: So not stealthing?
SAM: Maybe you should not go first.
MARISHA: Okay, no, I'll stealth a little bit.
MATT: Roll a stealth check, Beau.
MARISHA: Okay. That was almost good. 11.
MATT: Who else is following Beau?
SAM: I'm going to not follow, but go off to the
side and try to go around the other way.
MATT: Stealth check from you.
TALIESIN: We have not had a short rest yet, have
we?
MATT: Nope.
TALIESIN: Okay, just checking.
LIAM: A short rest? I thought we did, back at the
house.
MATT: A short rest-- You didn't call it out.
MARISHA: But he was on first watch.
LIAM: I happily went, "I get to use arcane
recovery" in my head because of the conversation
that was happening.
MATT: I will allow a short rest before you guys
went to bed. It's fine, I'll allow it.
SAM: 16.
LIAM: Thank you, Matt.
MATT: The two of you have branched off and are
stealthing, you think. What are you doing, Caleb?
LIAM: I wanted to go with Nott, about 20 feet
behind, and cast Mage Armor as I go.
MATT: Okay, and what's your stealth check?
LIAM: It is a big ten.
MATT: Okay. What are you doing, Keg?
ASHLY: I pick up my battleaxe and there's a little
medallion hanging from the bottom of it and I look
at it and I go: Goddamn it, and I try to stealth
after them. Natural 20.
MATT: You have disadvantage, however, in your
armor.
ASHLY: Natural 20.
ALL: Whoa!
TALIESIN: That die never does that for me.
LIAM: You did this last time. You're not human!
MATT: The anti-Wheaton has been found.
LIAM: You can't come back!
MATT: You can never touch Wil Wheaton, or you guys
will cancel each other out like the bad guy in
Time Cop. Oh my god. Strangely, the stealthiest of
all of you is the dwarf in plate armor.
MARISHA: Amazing. It's lubricated with all the
blood of her enemies.
MATT: Exactly. All right, Molly, you're staying 30
feet back?
TALIESIN: I'm staying 30 feet back and attempting
a stealth check. That's cocked. That's better.
That's (counting) 12.
MATT: You all slowly begin to approach this fire,
seeing the shapes and the figures described by
Caleb previously. Beau, you step forward and your
foot catches an under root and stumble for a
moment. You hear the scrambling of her arms across
the bottom of the forest floor, the moving and
shifting of leaves and branches. The old woman
looks up in that direction and looks back at you,
immediately making eye contact with you about 30
feet away. Her arms immediately jump up in your
direction as she begins to shout, "You! You will
not take any more of us! I will sooner die!"
MARISHA: I reach back out to her and I go: Yes,
right?! We are so going to die. I'm with you.
MATT: Make a wisdom saving throw.
MARISHA: Saving throw?
MATT: Yes.
MARISHA: 15?
MATT: You feel some sort of magical force suddenly
penetrate your mind, and this sparkle of colors
begin to spray in front of your face that
completely distract you and obscure your vision
momentarily, but you blink out of it and find the
effect drift off of your brain. The old woman goes
"(panting)," and reaches down and puts herself in
front of the boy, between you and the child.
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm not bad. I'm not one of the bad
guys... That you were definitely talking about.
That I'm aware of, right? What bad guys are you
talking about?
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
MARISHA: Okay.
LIAM: Ooh, that's craziness.
MARISHA: That's in the middle of nowhere. Okay,
18.
MATT: Her immediate tension drops slightly. She's
still maintaining a very defensive position in
front of the child. One hand is still up, but it
seems that she's pulled back a bit from the
aggressive stance she was previously in. As she
lifts her face a bit, you can see a bit more of
her expression in the light as the hair pulls away
as she lifts her chin. You can see that the face
is humanoid, but with a wider nose. The skin is
grayish, almost a blue tint, with bits of a soft
fur. It takes you a second to recognize where
you've seen these features before. This appears to
be the same type of race that Pumat Sol is.
MARISHA: Firbolg?
MATT: It is a firbolg.
MARISHA: Amazing!
MATT: You can see there is a series of necklaces
that looks to be bones and rocks and stones that
have been polished that dangle around her neck as
adornments and trinkets. A few bird skulls hanging
on it, as well. The child, also you see, is a
young firbolg, as well. Knees tucked against his
chest. You can see that the child looks scraped up
and bruised, and appears to have been injured.
MARISHA: I say, Bad guys kidnapping kids, right?
That's scary stuff. Trying to protect your son?
MATT: "Not my son, but we have lost a few, yes."
MARISHA: Who--
MATT: Looks past you, for a second, to Molly, who
is not being stealthy, either. "How many are you?"
TALIESIN: One, two, three, four, five--
MARISHA: Currently five--
TALIESIN: Five!
MARISHA: But just call us the Nein. The Mighty
Nein.
MATT: "Very well."
MARISHA: Here, M. Nein? (whistles)
TALIESIN: I'm just walking out at this point.
SAM: I'll slowly emerge from the shadows.
ASHLY: I'm staying in the forest.
LIAM: Same.
MATT: Okay. "I apologize, I've been on edge for a
number of days. You seem to know these people or
"have heard of them at least?"
TALIESIN: We've lost a few recently.
MATT: "I'm sorry. I am Jumnda. I'm a healer in my
aged years for the Guiatao Clan. We are small in
"number and, now, yet smaller still."
MARISHA: The Guitaya Clan?
MATT: Guiatao.
MARISHA: Guai--
MATT: G-U-I-A-T-A-O.
MARISHA: Guiatao Clan.
MATT: "This little one is Umbo. He is awake now,
which is good fortune. I've been trying to bring
"him back to health for a couple of days."
MARISHA: You say he's not your son, but part of
your clan?
MATT: "Yes, he is under my care now."
MARISHA: Is the whole clan wiped out? Who's left?
MATT: The woman, Jumnda, looks around for second
and takes a deep breath. "Three days back, the
"clan was in celebration for the coming of age for
young Duma. Roasted boar was prepared, and the
"twenty of us were dancing around the fire when the
murderers came. Slew Toffah and Wolya with their
"arrows as they danced together. Others fought.
Fennis died protecting me, and I managed to grab
"Ombo here as he had been beaten within an inch of
his life to unconsciousness. We fled. But I
"watched as they grabbed others in nets, pulling
them away as they screamed and yet made no noise."
You know exactly who and what she's talking about.
The methods are very familiar. "When they left, I
"returned to nurse those I could back to health.
Nila, by some luck, was off when the attack
"happened. She returned to find her love and child
taken.
MATT: "Nila went off to find them alone. I begged
her to stay, else she join their fate, but it's
"impossible to stop a mother when the child is in
danger. So I fear for her life but I understand
"her drive. So here I am, here he is, and a few
survivors care to what remains of our village a
"ways back that direction." She points deeper into
the forest. "So, you know my story, what's yours?"
MARISHA: Other half of our party members were
taken from us in the middle of the night, just
last night. Seems very similar ways, considering
neither of the rest of us heard anything.
TALIESIN: Just woke up and they were gone.
MATT: "They were lucky."
TALIESIN: We'll see.
MATT: "Had you been awake, you might have had the
urge or instinct to defend them."
TALIESIN: Well, we're making our way to see if
something can be done.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: "Well, you're as brave as Nila."
MARISHA: Nila? She's the one going after them?
MATT: "She was. I don't know where she is or if
she has fared well-- if they've found her. I think
she overestimates her capability."
MARISHA: What was her son's name?
MATT: "Her son was Dua."
ASHLY: Can I do an insight check just to make sure
that she's telling the truth?
MATT: You may.
ASHLY: 15.
MATT: 15?
SAM, TALIESIN, and MARISHA: Whispers?
SAM: Guys, D&amp;D Beyond is a wonderful platform, in
which you can organize your statistics and your
equipment and they've just recently done a revamp
of their layout. Liam, how do you like it?
LIAM: I like it. It feels like I am looking at the
paper.
SAM: And it's customizable!
LIAM: It's customizable. I haven't customized mine
yet.
ASHLY: We're talking about D&amp;D Beyond?
LIAM: Always.
SAM: Nice.
LIAM: Yes, Keg, we are.
ASHLY: I heard it's a wonderful service.
MATT: "Well, if we indeed have an enemy in common,
you are welcome to stay with us." And she glances
across you. "I can perhaps maybe tend to some of
your wounds. We have tea that's ready that may
"help you in your journey ahead."
TALIESIN: I genuinely don't know how to say no to
tea.
MARISHA: You couldn't bring a horse back from the
dead, could you? Just didn't know how far your
abilities stretch.
MATT: "I'm afraid that is beyond my capability."
TALIESIN: You can't heal a dead horse.
MARISHA: Water Closet's gone forever--
SAM: Yes.
TALIESIN: Downtrodden.
MARISHA: He saved our lives a lot. (laughing)
Downtrodden.
SAM: Stop! (whispering) Bastard.
ASHLY: Keg comes out from the forest.
SAM: Ah! I forgot you were with us!
ASHLY: Thanks a lot, Nott! What are we doing
here?
SAM: Well these people have suffered the same fate
that our frie--
ASHLY: We going to help every single person we see
along this road?
SAM: We're mutually-- We're going after the same
people that have affected them.
LIAM: (yelling) We were going to camp back there,
but instead we are going to camp over there!
MARISHA: That's Caleb. He always stands about 20
feet back.
LIAM: (yelling) At least!
MATT: "Well, if there are more of you, they are
welcome as well. I do not know if I have enough
"tea for everyone if there is more, but--"
TALIESIN: I'm feeling all right, but--
LIAM: It's just the five Neins.
ASHLY: So you're just offering us a place to stay?
You don't want anything out of this?
MATT: "No."
ASHLY: All right.
SAM: Some people are just good.
TALIESIN: Some people make tea. I'm going to head
in.
MARISHA: Can you do anything about this acid burn?
And I sit down next to her.
MATT: "I see that you have encountered some of the
ankheg variety."
MARISHA: Oh! They are called ankhegs, you guys!
SAM: Related to you?
ASHLY: No, Nott. Keep trying, you little
detective. You'll get it one day.
SAM: The subject seems to be exhibiting signs of
distress, or at least annoyance.
ASHLY: Annoyance!
MATT: You gather over to their space. It's a nice,
lived-in space. You get the sense this is the home
for this medicine woman, who doesn't live directly
with the rest of the village. She inspects your
wounds, has some balms and natural remedies to
help prevent infection. The tea, while it is not
necessarily delicious by any means-- it is very
herbal and medicinal-- it does fill you with a
sense of rest and relief, and what restlessness
you may have been struggling with through a
night's rest is absolved.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Chamomile.
MATT: As you guys manage to say here for the
evening, you get the benefits of a long rest. You
come to consciousness. Now in the morning day,
which is a little more peaceful.
TALIESIN: I have cards. We could have played
cards.
MATT: You awaken. Over by the fire the little boy,
Ombo, is sitting there, currently with these two
small wooden pikes that are jammed into the side
and some squirrel-like critters that are hanging
on them that are put towards the fire, cooking. As
you awaken, Ombo turns and smiles. Doesn't say
anything, but looks over and inspects them and
then brings them back and hands them out to you.
SAM: It's breakfast.
TALIESIN: I will definitely take some.
SAM: I'll take one. Yes, thank you.
LIAM: Do you understand what I am saying? Do you
speak? Is his ward awake?
MATT: You don't see her at the moment, but you do
hear a bit of rustling in the actual little hovel
in the tree archway.
ASHLY: Can I make a perception check around to
make sure everything is copacetic?
MATT: You can.
ASHLY: 16.
MATT: You notice that the horses have actually
been brought closer. They've been hitched together
to one of the local stumps, to the circle here. It
seems that in your rest, your very deep rest
through the evening, a lot of things have been
tended to and taken care of in your presence.
TALIESIN: They've got turn-down service here.
MATT: As part of your long rest, and the tea which
you took in the evening, you do have advantage on
perception checks for the next eight hours.
LIAM: I bring Frumpkin-- without saying a word,
telepathically, I have Frumpkin come down in front
of the child, and do a little owl nonsensical
shimmy dance on the ground, just for ten seconds,
to catch his attention, then have Frumpkin flutter
up and land on his head and gently find purchase
and sit.
MATT: Okay. He freezes on the arrival.
LIAM: I smile.
MATT: He seems to smile again, looking up at you,
looking up at Frumpkin. Stays frozen in place. At
which point, the doorway opens from the hut and
Jumna emerges with a small pouch of some kind.
Steps up to the rest of you. "I see you have
awoken. I know you'll be on your way shortly, but
"maybe this can help." She pulls back the top of
the leather pack and reaches in, and pulls out a
cluster of moss that has been dried, and holds it
out to whoever's closest or wishes to take it.
LIAM: Mollymauk will take that.
TALIESIN: Always.
SAM: What does it do?
MATT: "Should you find yourself in a wounded
state, this should help you with some rapid
"recovery of the wounds." It acts as a greater
healing potion, but it takes a minute to
administer, so it's a non-combat scenario.
SAM: Do you smoke it?
MATT: "No, it is crumbled and then ingested. You
can also put some in the actual wounds, if you
"like, but it is meant for ingestion."
SAM: See? People are just nice sometimes.
ASHLY: Never in my experience.
LIAM: Only sometimes.
TALIESIN: Do you know which way this friend of
yours was heading to find them? It was north on
the path, I suppose.
MATT: "Just north is what I know. North,
northeast?"
TALIESIN: We'll see what we can do.
MATT: "If you find her and whatever state you find
her... if it's not a good state, will you promise
"me to at least bring her back so we can give her a
proper burial?"
ASHLY: This ain't part of my deal.
TALIESIN: If it's possible we'll see what we can
do.
MATT: "That's all I can ask."
TALIESIN: All things being equal.
MATT: "Anyway. I thank you. Ombo thanks you.
And--"
TALIESIN: I look at the kid. Is he freaked out by
the way I look? Is he--?
MATT: No, not at all.
TALIESIN: I'm going to go down and try something.
MATT: He does have a giant owl on his shoulder and
is currently preoccupied with the owl.
TALIESIN: I'm going to try this. I haven't tried
this yet. I'm going to hold up the moon card, and
I'm going to try and do a sleight of hand trick
and flip it to one of my little moon trinkets,
moon baubles.
MATT: Ooh. Make a sleight of hand check.
TALIESIN: It would be the most hilarious natural
one-- eight.
MATT: Eight? Okay. It happens but--
TALIESIN: It's not beautiful yet--
MATT: The trick is very visible, what you did, the
kid still seems amused.
TALIESIN: I give him the bauble.
MATT: Smiles. Frumpkin ruffles his feathers, looks
a bit spooked.
TALIESIN: I give him a little scratch. The
horses?
SAM: Yes, we should keep going to find their
friends.
LIAM: Thank you both.
MATT: "Thank you for hopefully doing some good in
a very dark world."
LIAM: Well. Dark business at hand.
SAM: Do you know someone named Pumat Sol?
MATT: "Uh... that does not ring a bell?"
SAM: How about one of his friends Pumat Sol or
Pumat Sol or Pumat Sol?
MATT: "I apologize, I do not."
SAM: I just thought maybe they knew each other.
LIAM: They all know each other.
SAM: I don't know how many of these there are!
SAM: Me? I'm--
LIAM: Do you know a goblin named Furgle Burgle?
SAM: No! I don't know every goblin! There's lots
of goblins! I never-- All right, all right, point
taken, point taken.
(laughter)
MATT: As you guys gather your things, get the
horses ready, Ombo approaches and gives a little
wave. You watch as Jumma approaches from behind
and rests her hand on his shoulder. Looks up to
you and says, "Please, be safe."
MARISHA: We'll try. Thank you. Man, normally Fjord
is here to do this part.
SAM: No, that was really good!
TALIESIN: You did very well.
LIAM: That is the best you ever did.
MARISHA: Thank you. that does feel good. I did
something today.
TALIESIN: You were nearly charming.
MATT: Charming adjacent?
MARISHA: All right. We leave.
LIAM: As we leave, Frumpkin's head does that crazy
owl thing that goes 180 and flips around and just
looks as--
MATT: As you vanish into the treeline, Ombo the
child seems transfixed by the owl's behavior
before disappearing behind the trees, and you guys
find your way back to the open fields of the
northern Marrow Valley. So. Now back on horseback,
what pace are you traveling at? Are you still
going at a fast pace?
LIAM: We are well-rested.
MARISHA: We've already lost two of our horses, why
not lose a few more?
TALIESIN: We're the Three Amigos is really--
LIAM: Now all of us know-- ooh I went Vax. All of
us know, what you already knew, which is-- yes,
still hurts-- that these people are terrible. And
deserve no mercy.
SAM: Not the firbolgs we just met, right? You were
talking about the people who kidnapped our friends.
LIAM: What do you think?
SAM: I think-- we're still talking about the
people who kidnapped our friends.
TALIESIN: Everybody's doing so much better
suddenly. It's as if the vacuum means other people
have to start pulling some slack. It's nice.
MARISHA: What?
TALIESIN: Well suddenly you're being kind of
charismatic. Nott's making moralistic judgments
that are in the direction of reasonable.
SAM: Sure, sure.
ASHLY: I will say that I don't want to get hung up
trying to help those people while we're in Shady Run.
LIAM: Oh, you know. If we can. We're not
altruistic by nature, either.
ASHLY: All right.
MARISHA: You know, if we stumble upon one of them
maybe be like, "Hey. Met your grandma."
TALIESIN: Some days it's not hard to do a good
turn.
LIAM: But let's be clear, we're going to eliminate
the problem.
TALIESIN: Cheers.
LIAM: Save our friends. And if we can do something
extra, we do something extra. When we can.
SAM: And maybe even complete our mission.
TALIESIN: I'd forgotten about that.
MARISHA: I know that's a big deal, that whole
mission completing thing.
TALIESIN: Been a little distracted.
MARISHA: Yeah.
LIAM: All right, let's run these bastards down,
ja?
MATT: All right. Are you going at a normal pace,
or a fast pace?
MARISHA: Fast pace.
SAM: At a fast pace Matthew-- I'm on horseback
with Caleb right? Could I be on the back, maybe
just flipping through Jester's sketchbook?
MATT: Sure.
SAM: Okay, I'm going to look through the whole
thing.
MATT: All right. It is absurd. There are sketches
across the spectrum of silly-faced interpretations
and caricatures of the people you've met, of each
of you. There are little notes to The Traveler
throughout. You see people that you've liked in
the past looking beautiful, with tiny bodies, you
see people who you've hated in the past getting
stepped on by a poop monster. It's childish in all
the delightful ways that you'd expect from
Jester's capability.
SAM: Is it all drawings? Are there any notes, or
letters, or clues to her past?
MATT: There are notes. (pause) I will say, Laura
is not here to specify necessarily, that there are
passages in Common to The Traveler. What languages
do you know?
SAM: Common, Goblin, Halfling.
MATT: And there are a number of passages in a
language you don't understand. Meatier passages.
Longer ones.
TALIESIN: If only there were a tiefling here, who
possibly spoke and read the same language.
LIAM: Or a wizard who can read anything.
LIAM and TALIESIN: Keep it to yourself.
SAM: Keep it to myself. [yelling] Keep steering
Caleb, I'm looking at nudie pictures!
MATT: So you carry on at a pretty good pace, and
you're traveling rather swiftly. Though traveling
at this speed, it's harder to perceive things at a
distance. Thankfully, this renewed vigor from the
tea that you had for the evening may help you in
that endeavor as well. So, who is keeping watch on
the roads ahead of you?
LIAM: I am.
MATT: All right. Go ahead and make a perception
check with advantage, and minus five to whatever you--
LIAM: So advantage minus five on both?
MATT: Correct.
LIAM: Okay that's not good; that's a one. Okay,
that means I got a seven.
MATT: Okay then.
MARISHA: Seven?
LIAM: At advantage minus five on both the rolls I
rolled a nine, and a one. So hey.
MATT: For the next eight hours or so, you guys
continue on the trek on the outskirts of the
Crispvale Thicket. Eventually coming to meet up
with the Glory Run Road that heads northward to
the direction of Nogvurot. You can see there's a
road sign that specifically points up to Nogvurot,
southward to the crossroads. Following the map and
the path you've charted out, in your experience as
well, you travel for quite a ways along Glory Run
and then just head straight north towards the
Quannah Breach, so you'll be going off into just
grassland and scrubland at a certain point.
TALIESIN: Off-roading.
MATT: Essentially. About then eight hours hit, you
have another hour or so before the sun begins to
go down. You can continue to push for another hour
if you'd like to, and all take constitution saving
throws, it's up to you.
LIAM: If we do the one more hour it's constitution
checks?
MATT: You can do the one more hour, or you can
stop and set an early camp and get another
evening's rest. But, you do not spot anything along
the way. It's a beautiful open field.
LIAM: I'm sharp. I should always do this.
SAM: Are we getting close to where you think their
headquarters are?
ASHLY: How far do we have to Shadycreek?
MATT: You probably have maybe two days' more travel
before you get there.
ASHLY: I'm down to push the other hour, but my
constitution is (clicks tongue).
MARISHA: I'm down as well, but--
TALIESIN: Let's do it.
LIAM: Same.
MARISHA: And in that hour we can look for a place
to rest? It's like pushing for the next rest stop.
LIAM: Yes, one more. We push it one more hour.
TALIESIN: Do we want to go at a steady pace for
this last hour, or do we want to push for a fast pace?
LIAM: Fast equals a constitution check, right?
MATT: No, you travel for another hour of
additional movement, which will get you probably
another six miles ahead, then we'll see if you get
a point of exhaustion.
SAM: Let's do it.
MATT: You push for the ninth hour. I need you all
to make constitution saving throws, please.
MARISHA: Can we look for a good camping spot?
ASHLY: Natural 20.
MARISHA: Oh shit!
LIAM: Natural 20? I don't want to hear it!
TALIESIN: Natural 19. 21.
SAM: 13 total.
MARISHA: 18.
LIAM: Eight.
ASHLY: Oh no!
MATT: Caleb, you take a point of exhaustion. The
rest of you do not.
LIAM: Sweet, this is my first. What happens to me?
Do I die on the spot?
MARISHA: Disadvantage on your checks.
MATT: On ability checks, that's all.
TALIESIN: And you're hangry.
LIAM: That's my secret, Taliesin. I'm always
hangry.
MATT: As the sky grows dark, the still gray clouds
that have taken the sky overhead, the temperature
is dropping significantly. It looks like it's
going to be a particularly cold night. Do you wish
to continue pushing on?
MARISHA: Along the way, do we see anything that
looks like a good alcove or somewhere that would
be nice?
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: Which we have advantage on, right?
LIAM: Eight hours, and you said the eight hours
was--?
MATT: You've push now past hour nine, so you
cannot have advantage.
MARISHA: A six and-- oh, no advantage? I'll take
that six with my add perception of three, so nine.
MATT: Nine.
MARISHA: Nein.
MATT: Best you can find looking around, there are
a few small boulders or pieces of natural rock
formations that have pushed up out of the local
hills, as you are moving through this more hilly
area of the northern valley, but there's no
alcoves or caves that you're catching a vision of
that would give you safe and out of the public
eye.
TALIESIN: Does it look like if we push a little
bit further, there's any change in terrain?
MATT: There's only one way to find out.
TALIESIN: Even in far distance?
MATT: You can travel for another hour.
LIAM: Yeah, there's a way to do that.
TALIESIN: Want to do one more hour and call it?
ASHLY: Or Owl Boy.
MARISHA: He's hangry.
LIAM: We could push it, too. I'm good.
TALIESIN: Let's send the owl.
LIAM: Okay. Five minute little fly-ahead?
MATT: Okay. Make a perception check.
LIAM: I hold on to my horse and stop hearing
everybody. Disadvantage?
MATT: It's the owl, technically, not him.
LIAM: It's terrible. It's perception, was that
what I was doing? Five.
MATT: At this distance, it looks like it's
straight, moving, rolling hills and bursts of stone.
LIAM: It's getting dark out here, and I'm tired.
TALIESIN: If we can find a stone for cover,
maybe.
ASHLY: I'll take watch.
TALIESIN: We'll set up a proper camp.
SAM: I'll take watch with Keg.
ASHLY: Great.
LIAM: Before I go to sleep, I do the silver
thread.
MATT: First watch is you two. Do you wish to
combine your perception checks for this watch, or
take them individually?
ASHLY: No.
MATT: Roll individually.
SAM: 13.
ASHLY: Ten.
MATT: First watch manages to go by. You both keep
a very sharp eye out in the distance. Nothing
seems to catch your attention, though the night is
getting quite cold. Towards the end of your watch,
snowfall begins to slowly descend upon the
northern valley.
SAM: Chilly. Sure glad I have all this booze to
drink to keep me warm. Wouldn't you like some?
ASHLY: I have 200 pounds of pure muscle. I never
get cold.
SAM: Well, it tastes good, though. So there's
that, too.
ASHLY: Why you trying to cozy up to me?
SAM: I'm not trying to cozy up to you! I think we
got off on the wrong small feet.
ASHLY: You mean when you bared your teeth at me
four times?
SAM: I have to bare my teeth at everyone! Look at
these things, they're huge!
ASHLY: You have no choice?
SAM: No, I have very thin lips, very long teeth,
some would call them fangs. It's not my fault.
When I smile, it looks like I'm trying to bite
your throat off.
ASHLY: Show me?
SAM: (snarls)
ASHLY: Ooh.
SAM: And I like tongue. I was eating some tongue
when you saw me.
ASHLY: Oh, I forgot about that. I thought you were
coming on to me.
SAM: No! Oh god, no.
ASHLY: Well, you don't have to be that
disgusted.
SAM: You're a handsome woman, but-- you're a
woman, right?
ASHLY: Yes.
SAM: Okay, good. Just making sure.
ASHLY: Just because I have a five o'clock shadow,
doesn't mean I'm not a woman.
SAM: I don't know! I don't want to presume
anything.
ASHLY: All right, I'll have some booze.
SAM: All right, here you go. You know, it never
runs out.
ASHLY: It doesn't?
SAM: No.
ASHLY: Huh.
SAM: Special trick. So, uh, who got took? Who are
you missing?
ASHLY: Oh, that's where this conversation stops,
friend.
SAM: No! What? I thought we were getting to know
each other.
ASHLY: That's a big gun to pull out right after
you gave me a little bit of libation.
SAM: All right, did you go to school?
ASHLY: Fucking guess, detective. Do you think I
went to school?
SAM: Hmm, I would say no.
ASHLY: Yeah. Accurate.
SAM: Did you have a happy home life growing up?
ASHLY: I grew up in Shadycreek Run. Everyone's
favorite pastime there is stabbing people. No. I
didn't have a nice... growing up.
SAM: Hmm. I'm trying to think of a topic that's
less charged. Do you have a favorite sports team
you like?
(laughter)
ASHLY: We could talk about Iron Chef.
SAM: Iron Chef? I love Iron Chef. Never mind.
ASHLY: Sorry.
SAM: I just thought, well--
ASHLY: Yeah, I know. You're trying to be nice.
SAM: No, I just thought if we knew more about your
situation, it would maybe lead to clues that would
help us track down, or know the weaknesses of
these Shepherds who stole or killed your friends.
If we knew the circumstances around their untimely
demise.
ASHLY: I know the Shepherds well.
SAM: Were you one of them?
ASHLY: No. I wasn't. I just know them well.
SAM: Did you go to high school-- no, you didn't go
to school-- Hmm, everyone else is snoring.
ASHLY: They're well known. Everyone there knows
them. There's no way to not know them.
SAM: All right.
ASHLY: So you're not trying to chat me up so much
as you're trying to siphon information.
SAM: I'm doing what any good detective does, which
is just lay the groundwork for the case--
ASHLY: Under who?! Who considers you the greatest
detective?
SAM: Jester. Jester's one of the folks that got
stolen. Together we were a dynamic duo of mystery
solving. We could solve any mystery. Find any
criminal mastermind, no matter how nefarious. We
had all the tools, all the insights, all the
instincts! It was amazing. We were a well oiled
machine and then... she was taken. And now it's
just me.
ASHLY: I'm guessing she had most of the brains of
this duo.
SAM: I resent that.
ASHLY: I'm sorry. I'm sorry your friend got taken.
I'm going to try to help get her back.
SAM: All right. Well, I'll try to help you get
revenge on your vague past.
(laughter)
ASHLY: You don't have to say it like that, I'm
just not much of a sharer!
SAM: Sure, sure. How about you tell me one fact
about you and I'll tell you one about me?
SAM: Something you haven't told anyone. It'll be
like a game! And we'll each take a shot.
ASHLY: Shot first.
SAM: Here you go. (pouring noise)
ASHLY: Uh... My friend was a slave. Was enslaved
by them... By the Shepherds. So?
SAM: I'm a pretty good dancer!
ASHLY: I thought we were doing like some deep dive
shit!
SAM: I didn't know!
ASHLY: You were asking me some deep dive
questions! You're going to fucking give me the
dancer shit?
SAM: I didn't know! I thought we were going to
start small and then build!
ASHLY: No, because you set the precedent of asking
a serious question and then you gave me the shot--
SAM: You gave me the heaviest shit first though!
ASHLY: That's what you wanted, I thought!
SAM: Of course!
TALIESIN: (yelling) We're trying to sleep for
gods' sakes!
LIAM: (hoot owl call)
SAM: Well, this has been fun.
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm up too. Molly, you want to take
next watch?
TALIESIN: Let's take the next one.
MARISHA: All right.
ASHLY: Yeah, I'm going to fucking bed.
MATT: All right. So, Molly and Beau taking the
second watch, would you mind deciding who's making
perception checks, please?
Taliesin: Want to both go for it?
Marisha: Yeah.
MATT: All right, both roll.
MARISHA: 13.
TALIESIN: Nine.
MATT: Okay. As you guys go to bed, the both of you
keep an eye out for the rest of the evening. For
the rest of your watch, at least; and seemingly
uneventful.
TALIESIN: Want to gamble?
MARISHA: I'm not much of a gambler, you're
thinking of Jester.
TALIESIN: No, I'm not.
MARISHA: What?
TALIESIN: This is a game we used to play.
TALIESIN: Take my cards, set the deck down. Put a
question on the deck, whoever draws the highest
card has to answer it.
MARISHA: Wait are these like playing cards or
tarot cards?
TALIESIN: Tarot cards but they have numbers.
MARISHA: You know I fucking hate those things.
TALIESIN: I know.
MARISHA: I don't want anything to do with them.
TALIESIN: I'll throw one out there for you. What's
the best lie you've ever told?
MARISHA: The best lie I've ever told?
TALIESIN: I'll give you mine if you give me yours.
Whoever gets the highest has to tell.
MARISHA: Hmm...
TALIESIN: Or whoever gets the lowest has to tell.
MARISHA: All right, deal.
TALIESIN: Let's roll d20's, see whose number is
lower.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: Let me flip to my backstory.
(laughing)
MARISHA: Just in case here.
TALIESIN: You can be a little vague with it. You
don't have to be... I rolled very high.
MARISHA: Natural twenty.
TALIESIN: Seventeen, shit.
ALL: Ooh.
LIAM: You played yourself.
TALIESIN: I did.
MARISHA: This one has a pretty big number on it.
TALIESIN: Shite. Best lie I've ever told... I
pretended to be royalty for three weeks. For a scam.
MARISHA: That's fascinating, what kind of scam?
TALIESIN: I was-- Just a little while after I had
gotten my consciousness sort of sorted out, and we
got into a town and figured out that we could
actually get some nice digs and they were seeing
if I could maybe bullshit my way through it, and
it was kind of my test. So I pretended to be a
reincarnated royalty from across the sea.
MARISHA: Wow.
TALIESIN: Yeah. (laughing)
MARISHA: That's pretty fascinating.
TALIESIN: That was a lot of fun.
MARISHA: Do you not like knowing your past, that
way you can have multiple backstories? Be multiple
people at once?
TALIESIN: I like knowing that because it's not
there that it doesn't matter? And it helps knowing
I don't think it matters for anybody. I don't care
where anybody's from, it's nice. I certainly don't
care where I'm from.
MARISHA: I'll tell you one of my best lies, the
one I was most proud of.
TALIESIN: I pour-- I pass the drink.
MARISHA: Just because it was a pretty good one.
TALIESIN: That's usually how this rolls.
MARISHA: Yeah. There was a politician in the town
where I grew up that I didn't like very much.
TALIESIN: Politician?
MARISHA: Didn't like his wife, either. Wanted to
find some dirt on them. Pretended to be a house
hand for them, a little handyman. Found some dirt,
found out they were cheating on each other and
destroyed their relationships and their lives.
Maybe I shouldn't be proud of that actually.
TALIESIN: No, no I'm very impressed, actually,
that's-- you are a good friend to have and a
terrible enemy to make.
MARISHA: Yeah... anyway.
TALIESIN: To not quite being the worst people.
Cheers.
MARISHA: Cheers.
TALIESIN: Night.
MARISHA: Just maybe don't have a job that relies
on relationships, either.
TALIESIN: That's very fair.
MARISHA: Public opinion--
TALIESIN: They really had it coming.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: The rest of your watch goes uneventful,
leaving to Caleb the final watch.
LIAM: I'll take this myself.
MATT: All right. Make a perception check. Actually
you and Frumpkin can both make separate ones, I'll
let you do that.
LIAM: Good. Frumpkin got-- I'm going to use my cat
stats, because I don't have owl stats handy.
MATT: I can pull those up pretty quick.
LIAM: Oh okay, good.
SAM AND TALIESIN: Cat stats. (musical riff) Cat
stats!
MATT: All right, so that would be a plus one.
LIAM: Eleven.
MATT: That rely on hearing or sight, so you have
advantage on it though, because the owl does have
keen hearing and sight.
LIAM: Thirteen.
MATT: Thirteen, okay. Looks like this watch is
uneventful as well. You guys had a clean night.
LIAM: Okay, so, sitting in the silence, are any of
these people awake, that I can tell?
MATT: They all seem pretty asleep.
LIAM: Look at the lot of you. Look at these
people.
I should go right now. I don't know you at
all. Look at this one. He's like a walking
rainbow, what is this? Why are you with him? It
makes no sense. He's a circus performer, he's not
going to help you. This one you told everything
to, to try to get into a library. You learned
nothing. On your gamble, you failed. You're
stupid. Smart as you are, you're stupid with this.
She could cave in everything. This three that have
been stolen: yeah, they're nice. Two of them.
One's weird. One of them tried to kill you. The
other one, she's adorable, but-- Stupid. This one
here. What do you expect to do with her? How is
she going to help you do what you want to do? She
can watch your back--
MATT: (hooting)
LIAM: I know. Don't worry, you're fine. She's as
much a liability as anything else. You know you're
fucking mad when you're gesticulating this much.
You should just go. You have told too much. I am
going to go. It's time to go. He sits there for a
solid five minutes. Then two hours. Wait for
everyone to wake up.
MATT: Your watch comes to a close just as the
morning light begins to crest into the sky.
There's a mild break in the clouds on the eastern
horizon over the Ashkeeper and the Dunrock
Mountains. You're still getting a mostly cloudy
sky, but there are occasional bits of morning
light, faint light blues and yellows, and soft
white. The snowfall that has come throughout the
evening and packed up the very chilly cold night
is beginning to faintly thaw, but it is still a
very cold morning. As you all begin to come to
consciousness and gather your things, the clouds
close once more, and you look off towards the
northeast side of the valley and you can see
another darkened cloud coming with more snow and a
less forgiving turn of weather. Although it's a
ways off, you can see it this far away. You pick
up your things, horses at the ready. Do you
continue your journey? Anything you want to do
before you head off?
MARISHA: I do my morning push-up and pull-up
routine.
TALIESIN: Squats.
MARISHA: And then I'm ready to go.
MATT: Okay. You have to set two horses side by
side and use your staff there to give you pull
ups. There's not any trees here, but you manage to
pull it together.
MARISHA: Dope as fuck, yes I do.
LIAM: She can do it on the road.
MARISHA: Holy shit you guys I just figured out how
we can save 30 minutes.
MATT: On the road while you're-- You're just Chuck
Norris-ing it between the two horses. (galloping noises)
ASHLY: It goes without saying that Keg is
aroused.
LIAM: You should do that Arnold monologue from
that documentary, (Schwarzenegger voice) "You know
"when I am with my-- I am coming. And then when I'm
working out I am coming always."
MARISHA: (Schwarzenegger voice) I feel like I'm
always coming.
MATT: (Schwarzenegger voice) Always pulling up.
Always.
TALIESIN: That's a deep callback, wow.
MATT: Pushing on at what pace? I imagine
continuing at your hurried pace?
TALIESIN: Ja.
MATT: Pushing on for the remainder of this day,
who is keeping watch?
TALIESIN: I'll take a round.
MARISHA: All right.
MATT: Go ahead and roll perception for me,
please.
TALIESIN: Minus five?
MATT: Yes, minus five because you're traveling at
fast pace.
TALIESIN: Natural 20. 23, minus five is--
MATT: Still an 18. That's good. About three or so
hours into your journey, Molly, you look up ahead
and you can see a cluster of horses and a couple
of carts heading your direction, heading
southward.
You're not quite there yet, but you're
getting close to where the direction you should
continue on breaks off of Glory Run, but you're
still on the road. You do see a small caravan
making their way southward in your direction.
TALIESIN: Once they get a little closer, let's
slow down and walk to the side of the road and
take a look at this.
MATT: Okay. You guys move off to the side.
ASHLY: Can I tell from looking at the cart if
there's anything off about it?
MATT: Make a perception check.
SAM: It's got five wheels.
ASHLY: 17.
MATT: Glancing off, as you approach, you begin to
make out details. You do not recognize this
troupe, and the cart seems like there are tarps
and cloths laid over large bundles. They are
obscured from view specifically so the contents
cannot be seen, which is not what you're looking for.
ASHLY: Okay.
MATT: They don't want anyone to see what's under
the tarp, which is not the usual operation that
you've seen. The folks that travel southward,
they're dressed like normal traveling merchants:
not of a wealthy regard, but those who probably
bring common supplies, things from the northern
side, bringing them southward. It looks like they
have supplied up for a trade run and they're
heading southward. As they ride past you guys to
the right side, they give a nod.
SAM: Caleb, should I go check them out?
MATT: The next rider gives a nod.
ASHLY: They're not who we're looking for.
SAM: Oh, okay.
ASHLY: You can if you want to.
SAM: Are they suspicious?
ASHLY: Not from what I can see.
TALIESIN: What kind of traders do they look like?
What are they trading in?
MATT: With the perception roll you made, it's hard
to see because they've covered it specifically.
You can see underneath edges and pieces that are
pushing out, and the shape in places. It looks
like they're bringing farming supplies. It looks
like they're bringing possibly grains and foods.
It looks like things that would be easy pickings.
They're not the kind of people that can defend it, so
it's maintain mystery and keep pushing.
SAM: All right. We can go.
MATT: Okay. You continue on. On this next leg of
your journey, we're riding on your perception roll
off the road, your natural 20. I'll let that stand
for a bit. The pace that you've been keeping on
this without being kept by your cart has gained
you quite a bit of ground and about another two
hours or so into this afternoon, your eyes catch
another cluster of carts facing the same direction
you are.
ASHLY: Can I make a perception check on this one?
MATT: You may.
ASHLY: 15.
MATT: It takes you a moment of getting close and
you're about, I'd say, a quarter mile back from
this troupe. You can see the familiar two larger
carts, one smaller. It stinks of familiarity to you.
ASHLY: This might be them.
MARISHA and SAM: What?
MARISHA: Did we catch up to them?
ASHLY: We may have.
SAM: Caleb, look at this picture of you in
Jester's book. It's really funny.
ASHLY: It's not the time, Nott!
SAM: Oh, no?
MARISHA: We shouldn't clue them off that we're
here.
TALIESIN: No, let's slow our pace.
MARISHA: Okay. Maybe a couple of us could flank
around? What's the terrain?
SAM: They're moving, right?
MATT: They're moving, yeah.
ASHLY: Can your owl see if there's a big human
man, fighter-looking guy?
LIAM: Bigger than average-sized man, you mean?
ASHLY: Yeah. He's pretty surly, intimidating
looking. He might have a half-elf with him.
LIAM: Well, we're about to get into it, yeah?
TALIESIN: I think we should wait until they start
to set up camp. They've got to stop at some point.
SAM: We don't even know who they are yet, though.
MARISHA: What time is it?
MATT: It's mid-afternoon at this time. You've been
traveling since shortly after daybreak, so it's three
o'clock in the afternoon. You have another hour or
so before you hit your eight hour mark and your
horses start tiring and you start tiring.
MARISHA: We're nowhere near Shadycreek?
MATT: You're a couple days' travel or so from it
at this pace.
TALIESIN: They're going to have to camp.
LIAM: I'll tell you what I do is, I dab my thumb
into my belt for a bit of sweet oil and I rub it
on my bottom lip and mutter an arcane word or two
and say: I suggest you tell us any details you've
been holding back about these people so that we
are fully prepared. That is a Suggestion spell.
MATT: Yes, it is. I'm going to have to ask you,
Keg, to make a wisdom saving throw, please.
ASHLY: Nine.
LIAM: No.
MATT: That is not a success. You feel, strangely,
though it is out of character for your intent,
magically compelled to offer up a fair amount of
information that would seem useful in the coming
scenario about these individuals.
SAM: We love our guests. We love them.
ASHLY: There should be five of them. The leader's
name's Lorenzo. He's a human. This is weird. Ruzza
the half-elf sorcerer. Protto, shitty little
halfling rogue. Dwelma is a half-orc druid woman.
How much more do I have to tell?
MATT: As much as would seem useful for this.
LIAM: It was details that would help us in the
situation.
ASHLY: I have to say everything?
LIAM: You're compelled to say anything that's
useful in what we're about to do with these
people.
MATT: Yes. Interpret that as you feel necessary.
LIAM: Any other details that you've been holding
back that would help us in this situation.
MARISHA: Lorenzo is a fighter type?
ASHLY: Yes.
MATT: You do know that he walks with this
nasty-looking glaive. It's a polearm with a large
hooked blade at the end of it that he uses as both
a symbol of station and a very dangerous weapon,
if need be. Gives him reach, gives him range.
ASHLY: I tell you about that, and Juam. She's a
human barbarian. She's not as bad as the rest of
them. That's all I know.
LIAM: No magic?
ASHLY: There's a sorcerer.
TALIESIN: And a druid.
MATT: You're pretty sure there's a sorcerer,
you're pretty sure there's a druid. You don't know
a lot about magic stuff, but you know one of them
seems to be more nature-based and the other seems
to throw spells, but is cock-sure and
charismatic.
TALIESIN: Do you know anything about the cages
they keep their prisoners in? Are they magically
enchanted or are they just cages?
ASHLY: They'll look like normal trade from the
outside. They'll look like they'll be shuttling
around food, innocuous items, but there's a
magical obfuscation over them.
LIAM: The ones with the arcane ability look like?
ASHLY: The half-elf and the half-orc are the ones
that are magical.
LIAM: What color is the half-elf's hair?
ASHLY: I don't remember.
MATT: The half-elf is a very short, pointed pixie
cut that is ashy blonde.
MARISHA: What was the name of the rogue again?
ASHLY: The rogue is Protto.
MARISHA: Protto.
ASHLY: And I lied, Nott. I used to work with
them.
LIAM: That is a pretty big matzo ball.
ASHLY: Yeah. I'm not proud.
TALIESIN: I sort of figured. I figured everyone
else figured at this point, really?
SAM: I definitely deduced that from our
conversation. It's not surprising to me in the least.
LIAM: I take people at their word.
TALIESIN: I do, too. But, you know, people say
things.
SAM: I lied too. I'm an average dancer.
(laughter)
ASHLY: So we're even Steven.
TALIESIN: How bad are the terms that you're on
with these people?
ASHLY: Pretty bad!
SAM: Want some more booze?
ASHLY: Yeah. Shot, shot, shot. Yeah, not great.
MATT: The spell comes to a close now because you
have fulfilled the suggestion.
ASHLY: Ah, you guys are assholes.
SAM: We told you that.
TALIESIN: That's fair.
SAM: We said that multiple times.
ASHLY: Can we see if it's them?
SAM: Yeah, how? Can you go owl it out?
LIAM: Yeah, lay low.
TALIESIN: We're starting to get a plan.
LIAM: I plant my hand on Nott's head and go into
Frumpkin's eyesight and send him up there.
MATT: Okay. Frumpkin takes off and begins to coast
at a fair enough distance to keep an eye down. Make a
perception check for Frumpkin with advantage.
LIAM: Advantage, you say?
MATT: Yeah, he's an owl still. Owl has keen sight
and hearing.
LIAM: Yeah! Owl rolls, yeah! 20.
MATT: Frumpkin, getting a nice view from this
distance, makes out that there are three carts.
There is a figure at each cart. The two larger
ones have two horses at each front, the third one
has one horse. There is a rider on each of the
horses, or at least there is a rider on the
smaller horse and there are two that are sitting
at the front of the carts that are currently
holding onto the reins of the other two. You do
see, sitting next to the individual at the reins
at the front, a very thick, muscular man, bald
with tattoos across the back of his head--
MARISHA: This is our fucking guy!
MATT: With the glaive resting at the side, staring
ahead. Everyone else seems to have hoods up and
are trying to keep their image obfuscated.
LIAM: All but Lorenzo?
MATT: Lorenzo, he has a cloak on and stuff, but
right now he has the hood back. You really don't
see anybody catching their attention. He seems to
be enjoying the air across his hairless head.
LIAM: It's good. It's true, shaved head. The wind,
it's good.
MATT: You see seven figures.
MARISHA: Wait, in the cages?
TALIESIN: There's no cages, they're magically--
ASHLY: I assume you communicated all of this to
us?
SAM: Yeah, he usually narrates as he sees.
ASHLY: Okay.
TALIESIN: With his very dulcet tones.
LIAM: Sure, this time he does.
SAM: Sometimes you do.
LIAM: Sometimes I do, lately.
ASHLY: We can't attack them like this.
SAM: Why not? There's five of us and--
ASHLY: There's seven of them!
SAM: We have an owl.
TALIESIN: I have a plan. It's a bit of a crazy
plan. They're carrying the means of their own
undoing. If we can free whoever is in those cages,
we get a lot of allies.
ASHLY: We don't know if it's your friends.
TALIESIN: Anybody in there I'm sure is going to
have feelings towards these people.
ASHLY: Look.
MARISHA: So we wait until they camp?
TALIESIN: I like waiting until they camp and
coming in at night.
MARISHA: What were you going to say, Keg?
ASHLY: When they take people, they break them. So
if you're counting on whoever's in those cages to
help, they're not going to be able to. It's going
to be five versus seven, even if we attack at night.
MARISHA: Like mentally break them?
ASHLY: Both.
MARISHA: Fuck.
MATT: As far as you know, most of that process
happens once they take them back because usually
it's a grab and run type scenario. But they do
usually have them manacled, hogtied manacle style
and gagged.
TALIESIN: If we can just get into that cage and
untie them without them noticing.
SAM: At night, maybe after they've camped.
LIAM: This is our best chance because we don't
want them to get to their destination because then
they are surrounded by many friends.
SAM: Or a fortress or something.
LIAM: Yeah. Now is the time.
SAM: Should we just continue to follow them for
now or attack right now in the broad daylight?
ASHLY: How far are they from Shadycreek? You said
two days?
MATT: About two days, yeah.
ASHLY: Okay.
MATT: Two days at your pace, probably three days
at theirs.
ASHLY: Okay.
TALIESIN: Wait until the sun sets right before
they go to sleep.
SAM: Oh! We know where they're going. We know
where they are. Why don't we ride ahead of them--
MARISHA: And set up an ambush?
SAM: Yes!
MARISHA: That's a damn good idea.
ASHLY: I like that.
TALIESIN: I could be into that.
LIAM: That is wicked.
MARISHA: I wonder if we could do a little bit of
both. Free the people in the cage and then ambush
later? Nah, that seems distracting.
TALIESIN: Ambush. Free people. All one big thing.
I'm sure they're not used to being attacked by
people who actually know what they have.
ASHLY: You actually had a good idea for once.
SAM: Thank you. I'd better get drunk, then.
TALIESIN: Let's full-speed blow past them, just
nod and keep moving.
SAM: On the same road? We're not even going to go
around?
LIAM: No, wait until they sleep. We're going to
follow at a distance and then when they bed down
for the night, we leave and then skirt around.
TALIESIN: All right.
LIAM: I like this.
TALIESIN: This is a good plan
LIAM: Well done Nott, well done.
MATT: All right.
(laughter)
MATT: So keeping your distance behind them, pulling
your pace back to just the normal, even slow pace,
it's up to you. Probably normal to keep in pace
with them.
MARISHA: At a medium pace.
MATT: It was going to happen eventually.
SAM: You're gross, Marisha.
MARISHA: I'm the worst.
MATT: About a few more hours, sundown hits, we'll
say for the purposes of the narrative here. They
pull off to the side of the road and begin to set
up camp. Keeping an eye on this in the distance,
you watch them. Keeping far enough away, making
sure you're not in eyeshot of them, as part of
that, I will say two of you helm a stealth check to
see whether or not they see you on the road behind them.
TALIESIN: Yeah, it'll be the two of you.
MARISHA: Helming a stealth check?
SAM: Why don't you look at that dodec?
MARISHA: Well, I already have it, I just haven't
used it yet.
MATT: Well, it lasts for a day.
MARISHA: Do I still have it? I don't have it. Oh,
but I can look at it again!
LIAM: Of course you can. This is why I say you
shouldn't just hand it over. Just save it for the
moment.
MARISHA: I thought I might have needed it on the
thing, but I rolled a natural 20 on my sack check.
MATT: All right, you take your fragment of
possibility. So... go ahead and roll.
MARISHA: Do I have to call that I'm going to use
advantage on it before or I can roll and then choose?
MATT: It's afterward. You can roll it and then
choose to. It's like a luck point.
MARISHA: Don't fuck me, Gil. Yeah, it's 20 total.
SAM: Wow, mine's 19.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: (whispers) Should I do it again?
MATT: You guys stay back and watch as they pull
off and make camp. With that, as the cover of
ever-encroaching night becomes your ally, you
begin to arc around on the opposite end of the
road going behind one of the larger hill grades,
which manages to hide your horses as you speed up
and take off ahead. To do this, it's going to cost
you an hour of pushing past, so everyone make your
constitution saving throws please.
SAM: 12?
ASHLY: 15?
MATT: Okay.
MARISHA: Oh, that was almost a natural 20, but
instead it's five.
TALIESIN: You still have your mote, you can use it
now.
MARISHA: Are we going to rest on the other side?
It lasts a day. Are we going to sleep on the other side?
SAM: Maybe.
MARISHA: Yeah? I'm going to save it. Five.
TALIESIN: All right, 18.
SAM: This one's aroused, who knows what's going to
happen.
(laughter)
LIAM: Six.
MATT: All right, so Beau and Caleb, you both take a
point of exhaustion. So you're going to have
disadvantage on ability checks.
LIAM: Better constitution than Vax, though.
SAM: Oh, interesting.
MATT: All righty. So, pushing forward on this, you
come to a point-- how far ahead of the road of
them do you want to set up your ambush?
SAM: Well, we would want them to get going in the
morning, right? But not immediately get ambushed,
like settle into a little bit of a pace for an
hour or two.
MARISHA: It's got to be just long enough to where
they're zoning out.
LIAM: One hour in. 90 minutes.
SAM: Yeah, somewhere around there. A couple
miles.
TALIESIN: We'll stop when we see somewhere that
seems advantageous.
SAM: Yeah, that's the key.
TALIESIN: If we see something--
SAM: Oh, it's dark now, right?
TALIESIN: Yeah, but we've got night vision.
MATT: 60-foot. Maybe.
TALIESIN: Anything that we were going to do would
be near the road anyway.
MATT: Right. So who's taking a look for a good
ambushing point?
MARISHA: Not me, I'm tired.
ASHLY: I will.
SAM: Ooh!
MATT: So roll for disadvantage because it is
night. Even though you have night vision, it's only
a short distance.
ASHLY: Perception?
MATT: Correct.
ASHLY: Seven?
MATT: All right, you find a place--
(laughter)
MATT: I mean, it's a road. So you guys have an
evening to-- what do you want to do for your
ambush?
SAM: We need to plan the ambush.
MARISHA: We need to plan.
SAM: We don't have a cart to block the road with.
MARISA: We don't have a cleric who can Hold
Person.
SAM: What do we have?
ASHLY: Just someone with a lot of sordid history
with these motherfuckers. Skeletons in the
closet.
SAM: You could stand in the middle of the road and
distract them.
ASHLY: Yep.
MARISHA: That's actually not a bad plan, just in
case.
LIAM: I would recommend-- they will probably be
traveling pretty close together and I could slow
them down. Magically speaking. If you were to bait
them a bit and talk to them.
Then if we pick a trigger point I could cast
Slow... most of them, some of them would make it
through unscathed, but--
MARISHA: Would they kill you on sight if they saw
you?
SAM: What if we did like a--
ASHLY: I don't know.
SAM: --like a Red Dawn thing? (laughing) We dug a
hole, and then we got in the hole--
ASHLY: You had one good idea.
SAM: --and they came over us and we popped out of
the hole and we grabbed onto the cart and we rode
under it and then we like chopped a hole in the
bottom of the cart.
LIAM: What does that have to do with the dawn?
SAM: It would be really cool!
TALIESIN: First: do we have any dynamite?
SAM: Oh! (pause) No.
MARISHA: We used it on the troll and it did
nothing.
SAM: Let's figure out what we do have, though.
LIAM: We have acid.
TALIESIN: We have acid.
SAM: We have four vials of acid.
TALIESIN: Do we have enough Dispel Magic that we
could reveal the cart so we could see it?
LIAM: Dispel Magic?
TALIESIN: Yeah, like can you make magic go away?
LIAM: How would that... what?
TALIESIN: Magic. Have you never seen anybody do
this before? Just make magic go away?
LIAM: Yes I can, but what does that have to do
with the cart?
TALIESIN: They're cloaking the cages. You could
maybe free the people inside the cages with your
magic hand thing that you do. And if their horses
die those carts aren't going anywhere.
SAM: Oh! We could just kill all the horses.
TALIESIN: And then they're stuck.
LIAM: We may have a split second to-- you want to
try to get these people out immediately, that's
what you're saying?
TALIESIN: If they're out, they're helping us.
MARISHA: Horses aren't a big threat, I would
rather focus on the people.
TALIESIN: But if we kill the horses, the cart
can't leave.
MARISHA: Yeah, but if we don't kill the people then
they can kill us.
TALIESIN: That's fair, too, but they could try and
run.
MARISHA: These seem like people who are confident
in themselves--
ASHLY: They don't run.
LIAM: It was two carts, you said?
MATT: Three carts, two larger ones and one
smaller.
SAM: We could just ambush the last one.
LIAM: I couldn't tell from the aerial view, which
one-- they're all hidden, right?
MATT: All you saw was just goods in the back.
TALIESIN: They don't drug their prisoners?
ASHLY: They tie them up and then gag them.
TALIESIN: They don't drug them?
SAM: Do you have anything we could use?
ASHLY: I have an axe and a hammer. And three
javelins!
TALIESIN: One last question. How secure are these
carts, or do they just trust that nobody's going
to get out of the hog tie?
ASHLY: They're in cages.
TALIESIN: It's cage, cage, cage? It's not wooden
bottom, wooden top? It's with bars? There's no
weak point?
MATT: You haven't inspected them for weak points,
you're not the brightest bulb in the shed
necessarily when it comes to these things. They're
cages, they're made mostly of metal and they seem
to hold. They got locks.
TALIESIN: As long as we can pick some locks, untie
some ropes.
ASHLY: I think the main-- (heavy sigh)-- The main
person to worry about-- so first of all, Protto is
the lookout. Disabling him, maybe, if you guys are
trying to be stealthy, would be helpful because
he's got--
SAM: --we guys.
ASHLY: "We guys?"
SAM: You're part of the team now too.
ASHLY: We guys. Dwelma is the creepiest and the
craziest, she's the half-orc.
SAM: Druid.
ASHLY: Yeah, she's pretty gnarly. I mean, they're
all pretty awful, to be honest.
SAM: What's our primary goal? Just to stop them
and prevent them from fleeing?
ASHLY: If we're doing this now, we have to kill
them.
SAM: Yes, so we have to stop the path, right? We
have to block them from escape. How do we do that?
Do we fell a tree? Can we fell a tree?
LIAM: That is a good giveaway, though.
TALIESIN: Honestly, once the combat starts,
especially if you've got Fireballs, we can just
make sure those horses are toast.
MATT: Keeping an eye on the area as you're having
this conversation, you glance around and there's
an area not too far ahead that you can just see a
little bit of the moonlight breaking through the
clouds. The snow has not quite arrived yet. But
you can see there are these two small hills that
flank the sides of the road not far ahead where
you can see there are some boulders that protrude.
it looks like there is a tree stunk-- stunk?--
tree stump and an old rotted tree that's sitting
on another one.
SAM: We could fell the tree right on them as they
come by.
MARISHA: Ooh.
MATT: It's not a very big tree. If it were to fall
it would just hit the side of the hill and be on
the side of the road.
MARISHA: How rocky are those hills in between?
Could we trigger a rock slide?
MATT: No, they're not very high, they're maybe
seven, ten feet tall at the highest? And it looks
like there's been some erosion on the sides where
they've just slipped on certain edges.
MARISHA: Maybe using Keg as a distraction up
front--
ASHLY: They probably wouldn't kill me on sight.
Lorenzo likes to make examples of people. So what
would you guys do if I bought you time?
SAM: Kill all the horses first so they can't get
away?
MARISHA: Couple Fireballs.
TALIESIN: I could teleport into one of the cages
and start untying people.
SAM: Ooh, that's pretty good. I could also Mage
Hand and start unlocking cages.
ASHLY: Is there a way that we could split them up
somehow?
SAM: Okay. How do you propose?
ASHLY: Not split them up necessarily, but have each
of them occupied.
MARISHA: Have just certain targets between some of
us?
LIAM: The best thing that I could do in that
department is Slow, hopefully, all of them down.
All of them, if they are closely grouped. If not,
I could hold one person.
SAM: If we're trying to split them up, you could
just slow the last carriage further down the road
and they'd drift apart a bit, I don't know.
LIAM: We could, but the way I would do that would
be with a giant, earthen cat paw, which would seem
out of the ordinary.
SAM: I see.
TALIESIN: With you at the top of one hill, if we
get you some cover, and you at the other hill, if we
give you some cover, giving you both some distance,
the three of us getting into the middle of it,
coming at them at all sides.
MARISHA: I could stun somebody depending on how
close I get. Maybe Lorenzo, try and square off
against him. Of course all the spell-slingers are
good to take out early as well.
ASHLY: I will say the half-orc has a weird liking
for Lorenzo, so just be prepared if he goes down
first that she's probably going to go insane.
MARISHA: Maybe we focus on the druid and the
sorcerer?
TALIESIN: Always take out the magic users first.
And if we can get a few friends in whoever is in
those cages, for all we know that's where they've
got our people.
MARISHA: I feel like if you could hold the
barbarian, keep the barbarian away... I could maybe
stun Lorenzo and focus down on the rogue and the
druid.
SAM: Do we have any other weapons or any other
special things?
TALIESIN: Is there a way to embed a spell into the
ground?
MARISHA: I have ball bearings.
TALIESIN: Me too.
LIAM: On a muddy road, probably not very useful.
TALIESIN: If they try and climb the hills towards
either of you, you can have some ball bearings to
help slip them back down.
SAM: I have a gun!
(laughter)
SAM: I stole a gun in the last town we were in. I
stole a gun, I have a gun!
TALIESIN: I'm going to take the gun.
SAM: No you're not going to take the gun!
TALIESIN: I'm taking the gun.
SAM: No you're not!
MATT: Okay...?
TALIESIN: Dex?
MATT: Both of you make a dexterity check. Well,
this would technically be a grapple, so it would be
athletics for you--
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: --and then it would be athletics or
acrobatics for you.
TALIESIN: Oh yeah, I'm screwed.
SAM: I'll take acrobatics. It's only 11.
TALIESIN: It's fine, I'm seven.
MATT: Completely pulled out of your grasp.
TALIESIN: Does it even have anything in it?
SAM: I don't know.
ASHLY: I'm just going to go out and say we're
probably going to die, guys.
TALIESIN: We know.
MARISHA: I have rope. Can we set some sort of
tripwire trap?
SAM: Sure, sure.
MARISHA: Is that something you can do? You're good
at finding traps. Are you good at setting traps?
SAM: First of all, I'm not good at finding traps,
but I've found a few and the ones I've found have
been rope based.
MARISHA: With that big swinging log thing!
SAM: I could do a tripwire... for the horses?
TALIESIN: There's part of me that's wondering if
we hid you in the downed tree if you could sneak
in and start working on the cages before they even
know there's a problem.
SAM: Okay, so we fell a tree in front of the road.
They stop to move it. I'm in there, unlocking things.
MARISHA: We send Keg to distract. You go in--
SAM: They've already stopped, though.
MARISHA: --right, but if they try to go around it
or something. It's just a tree.
SAM: Sure, sure.
TALIESIN: Between two hills.
MARISHA: That's the name of this next chapter of
our journey, you guys.
SAM: Keg goes in to distract, Caleb kills the
horses.
MARISHA: No, you go in and try and get the people
out of the cage.
SAM: Yes, of course.
MARISHA: But wait, you can't see the cages?
They're magically cloaked?
MATT: They can't see them, from what you know. From
what Keg told you, they're magically cloaked until
you get there.
MARISHA: Until you get there. Maybe you have to be
close enough. You go in, try and get them out. You
come out, send a signal through Caleb that you're
out, and then Caleb does a big Slow thing, slows
them down. We go in, punk their asses. We win.
We're victorious.
SAM: (laughing) This is a great plan. The winning
part especially. Amazing.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: If we can pick the locks and untie
everybody.
LIAM: I am not going to destroy three horses in
one shot.
MARISHA: No, with Slow. Slow.
LIAM: I thought we talked about horses as well.
TALIESIN: We don't need to slow the horses. We
have a tree. If we want, we have a--
MARISHA: No, we slow the people. Hang on, let me
go through this again. We fell the tree. We send
in Keg. Keg distracts. We send in Nott. Nott tries
to pick the locks to the cages. Get the people
out. Nott runs. Nott sends the message to Caleb.
Caleb does the Slow spell on the party. We go in,
we kick ass, we win, we're victorious. I just said
that 30 seconds ago. Did you guys get it this time?
LIAM: They come upon a tree and somebody--
SAM: Are you aroused?
ASHLY: Yes.
LIAM: They come upon a tree in the road and a
woman that they despise now, and that is not
suspicious because?
TALIESIN: We could put her under the tree.
MARISHA: No, it is suspicious, but it's
distracting.
SAM: Ah, help, I'm under a tree! Also, you hate
me.
TALIESIN: If you find somebody bleeding under a
tree, that's not ridiculous. Tree fell, you
happened to get hit. Good luck.
MARISHA: That's dumb. Maybe she's standing on the
tree and she's like, "I'm a badass with an axe and
"a hammer and I took down this tree and now I'm going
to take down you."
TALIESIN: We could put you on top of the tree if
you feel like you want to have some words with
these people.
LIAM: I am not demanding anything, but my counter
proposal is that I walk 500 yards back along the
road, put the silver thread across the road so we
know they are coming, spend a few hours hiding
ourselves at the tops of these hills, waiting.
Nobody is in the road.
TALIESIN: I'm all right with that.
LIAM: We wait until they are just below us. I cast
Slow on them, and then we murder them.
MARISHA: Then we win, we're victorious. Same
plan.
SAM and MARISHA: Same plan.
TALIESIN: You guys work on people--I still think
opening the cages is going to be a good call.
We'll see what happens.
LIAM: Well, unless we hear a feasible plan for
doing that first--
MARISHA: Okay, okay. Plan A--
LIAM: I say we kick them in the goolies as hard as
we can from the beginning.
MARISHA: Plan A, you do that. We try to slow them.
If that fails, you're our distraction.
ASHLY: All right.
SAM: I'm going to dig a hole just in case. This
Red Dawn thing.
TALIESIN: I'm all right for this plan.
LIAM: Actually, I mean, that is a good idea. Could
we spend an-- I'm going to go set my thread across
the road. Could you make hiding places for all of
us, Nott?
SAM: Sure. On the tops of the hills, and then one
for me right in the middle of the road under the earth.
ASHLY: Do I have a sense of what they would do,
were they to reach Shadycreek Run? If they would
disband at any point, if they would stick
together, where they would take--?
MATT: No, from what your experience would be, they
would probably go to the hideout, to their little
homestead deeper into the Savalierwood. They would
drop off their payload and celebrate, probably,
for an evening of revelry, and then come back the
next day to begin the process of preparing them
for delivery, which involves breaking them.
ASHLY: Presumably, there are people in Shadycreek
Run who would love to see them dead.
MATT: Presumably. There are also people that
would--
ASHLY: Would help them?
MATT: --would help them. They have allies.
ASHLY: Okay.
MATT: I mean, they're working for one of the tribe
families, so yeah.
ASHLY: Okay.
NOTT: All right.
LIAM:I have seen both of you vanish, so if you put
in a little bit of time and elbow grease, you can
either find places on these two hills that are
conducive to us hiding or create those situations
with grass or something, I don't know how to do
it.
SAM: Yes, absolutely. Let's do it.
MARISHA: Let's do it.
SAM: Crafting party.
LIAM: I'm going to tell Frumpkin to go in the sky
and watch and head up the road a ways to set that alarm.
MATT: To set the alarm. Okay. I'm going to pull
out the map of the location so you guys can plan
out positioning.
MARISHA: Oh, snap.
SAM: But you can't know the map because we just
came up with this ambush plan tonight. There's no
way that you would have foreseen something like
this happening.
MATT: Well, the location of hills, if you were to
use that one. I have multiple--
LIAM: If he were human, Sam.
MATT: I have multiple maps prepared depending on
where things happen.
MARISHA: He's a witch, Sam. You know this. He sees
the future.
MATT: I have multiple maps with different
scenarios.
SAM: Can he float?
TALIESIN: He did move four or five maps into this
building today under cover of tarp.
SAM: Day?
MARISHA: It wasn't that undercover. It was Max
going, "No cast is allowed in here for ten
"minutes!" It wasn't that stealthy. You weren't
here for that.
SAM: I wasn't.
TALIESIN: I walked in the green room at one point,
and it was literally the, "No, Mom! Private time!"
SAM: We have a green room?
ASHLY: I was going to say.
TALIESIN: It's that weird room with the weird hair
salon stuff.
SAM: Oh, the makeup room.
MARISHA: We should get a mapmaking sock for him.
SAM: Are we going to do a studio tour at some
point?
MARISHA: We are. We wanted to film it this week,
but we got super distracted with building the studio.
ASHLY: (laughs)
SAM: You know, one of the things about the makeup
room is it has those hair salon sinks where you can get
a haircut in it or get your hair washed in the sink.
MARISHA: Taliesin wants to get rid of it.
SAM: Can I get my hair washed in one of those?
MARISHA: I want to so bad.
TALIESIN: Anybody who wants me to shave their
head, I'll do it.
SAM and ASHLY: Ooh.
MATT: This is the scenario that you've found.
MARISHA and TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: This is the path heading in a north
direction. These are the two hills. This is the
tree. How would you like to set this up? How do you
want to do this?
TALIESIN: (indecisive sound) It's less of a tree than I was
hoping for.
MARISHA: Nott and I look for the best elements of cover.
SAM: Can we move some of those bushes up? Up on
top of the hill? Can we snap some twigs and make
the bushes bigger?
MATT: I could see you probably do something like
that, sure. You have a little bit of time.
SAM: Yeah, fluff the bushes a little bit.
MATT: So where are you going to fluff the bushes
up here? Like what are you doing? Point it out to me.
SAM: Yeah, let's do that.
TALIESIN: Here's your paintbrush. Sculpt.
SAM: Oh my god. We're Minecrafting.
MATT: (laughs)
SAM: About there.
MATT: All righty.
TALIESIN: I'm so proud you know what that is.
SAM: And we're going to do that over here a little
bit.
MARISHA: That's good. That's good.
SAM: This thing can't move, right?
ASHLY: We're strong. I'm a beefy boy.
MATT: You can try. You can certainly try.
ASHLY: Should I roll something?
MATT: Make a strength check. This would be
athletics, actually. So make it athletics, because
this is you, not just lifting it, but also
bringing it along.
SAM: Holy shit.
ASHLY: 19.
MARISHA: Oh, she's fine.
MATT: You begin to drag it, actually. You watch as
this burly dwarf woman with a five-o-clock shadow
that is now coming into actual faint stubble grabs it--
SAM: It's like Rocky IV.
MATT: --begins just dragging it through this big
groove in the ground as you pull it over. Where do
you want to put it?
ASHLY: Is anybody else aroused?
SAM: --in the middle, or should we-- I'm aroused.
Sam Riegel is.
MARISHA: You beat me to it. I'm aroused.
SAM: Should we put it here, to narrow the passage?
ASHLY: Yeah, that's a good idea.
SAM: Okay.
ASHLY: I like that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like that.
TALIESIN: You can also dig a hole right underneath
it too so you can hide--
ASHLY: And the shrubberies?
MATT: And you have this tree here.
SAM: Is this thing hollow at all?
MATT: That tree is actually somewhat hollow. Not
completely all the way through, but there is an
alcove in it where some of it has rotted out.
SAM: That's where I'll hide. Tomorrow.
MATT: All right. So Nott, I'll go ahead and mark
you as-- this will be where you're hiding, just as
a note there.
SAM: Caleb, any other terraforming we want to do
over here?
TALIESIN: We want to push the tree over, don't we
want to give it a good shove?
SAM: Are we--
LIAM: As Caleb comes back from setting the Alarm
spell, tell me what you have worked out so far. I
set the Alarm spell and I took a wee over that
way.
ASHLY: (laughs)
SAM: We added some bush up here and up here-- to
hide in, so then one person can hide here, one
person can maybe hide here.
MATT: I'm excited. We've been gone for two weeks.
I'm like, let's do this.
ASHLY: (laughs)
SAM: We moved this over and it's got a little nook
in it, so Nott can stay in there.
LIAM: That's great.
SAM: But we have this tree here. Do we want to
knock over that tree and block the path?
MARISHA: You have an awesome axe, right?
ASHLY: I do.
TALIESIN: We also have a-- no, we left the axe.
Never mind.
LIAM: I think that we don't want to gild the lily.
That log is good--
MARISHA: I enjoy gilding lilies.
LIAM: --and it makes--
SAM: How tall is this tree, Matt?
MATT: That tree is maybe 15 feet, 20 feet?
SAM: So it only--
MATT: Actually, that one would be 20 feet tall.
LIAM: If you come to a road and there's trees
along it, your dander goes up. You're on guard.
MARISHA: You would think, there was a tornado that
came through here.
SAM: How about this? If I may. This log that we've
set on this side, what if we set it on this side
over here--
TALIESIN: Yeah.
SAM: --and then we weaken the tree in case we need
to tip it over--
LIAM: Yeah. I'm in favor of that.
SAM: --and block the other half.
ASHLY: Should I lift again? Or am I just going
to-- okay great.
MATT: That you can do.
SAM: So now we can weaken this tree, maybe, with
some chops and then--
TALIESIN: Yeah, you can do that angle--
SAM: --it can block the other half.
TALIESIN: --you can do that angle so that you can
just hit it and know which side it will fall to--
SAM: Sure.
ASHLY: Do I have to roll anything--
LIAM: You can stick a branch in there--
ASHLY: --to smack it with my axe?
SAM: To controlled--
ASHLY: To controlled smack it with my axe? I'm so
powerful.
MATT: You can certainly try.
ASHLY: What do I roll?
MATT: Go ahead and roll an athletics check for
this one.
LIAM: And Nott's trap making skills for help?
MATT: Just--
ASHLY: 15.
MATT: 15, okay. So you're able to carve into it,
and use your knowledge of where to hit properly
and where the strength should be applied, you
manage to cut a few wedges into it. It begins to
move slightly, and you're like, now's the time to
stop.
ASHLY: Nice.
TALIESIN: Um, just for-- no, that would be too
much. I was about to say, I could make a bullshit
trip wire, that when the tree went down, it would
tighten a rope. It would pop it.
ASHLY: Hmm.
SAM: Interesting.
TALIESIN: It would be rope on the ground. I don't
know if it would hide in that.
ASHLY: Yeah, it might be too obvious.
TALIESIN: It might be too obvious.
MARISHA: I think the best trap we have is Keg
standing behind the tree.
TALIESIN: Let's, just for fun, I'm going to have
some of our hemp rope already tied around this
rock, with just a big mess of it ready to go, so
if we need it, we've already got one anchor point.
SAM: Do we want to do any digging? Any mudding?
Anything else? Is this our ambush?
MARISHA: Where are you going to hide?
SAM: Me?
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: I'm going to be in the log, someone's going
to be up here in bush one, someone's going to be
in bush two.
MARISHA: I'll be in bush two.
SAM: Someone will be behind the tree.
ASHLY: I'll be behind the tree.
SAM: Caleb, where are you going to be?
LIAM: I am going to be way ahead, behind these
bushes, because what I'm going to contribute I can
do from far away and I can be knocked down like
that, so.
MARISHA: Molly, are you taking bush one?
TALIESIN: I'll take bush one.
MATT: Okay, so Molly, you're going here?
SAM: Wait, I thought Caleb was the Bush Man.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Caleb's going to be all the way back
there.
MATT: Beau?
MARISHA: I'm bush two.
MATT: Bush two here?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: All right. Beau's going to be here.
MARISHA: These are great codenames.
MATT: And you're going to be behind the tree?
ASHLY: Yeah.
MATT: All righty.
MARISHA: Do we have a signal as to when we go?
You're going to do the Slow spell, and then we
fuck shit up.
LIAM: I'm going to have to improvise. If they can
all be clumped together for the best, but I'm
going to wait and I'm going to call it in the
moment, if there's two together and not three, I
will go for two. If all three are together, great.
SAM: Just dry run it here, dry run it.
MARISHA: Dry running it.
SAM: Okay. The cart's coming, it gets slowed. "Oh,
what the fuck's going on?"
TALIESIN: It gets slowed when it reaches a log.
LIAM: Oh, I thought they were coming from the
other direction.
MARISHA: No, this way.
MATT: That's the north side.
TALIESIN: I was going to say, either that or you
hid up a rock.
MARISHA: Do you want to tradesies with Molly?
TALIESIN: Once the first caravan passes the log.
SAM: Then Slow it? But it doesn't stop, it just
slows.
TALIESIN: Does it just slow, not stop?
MARISHA: Yeah, well, it's called Slow, not Stop.
If it was a Stop spell, it would be called a Stop spell.
LIAM: The horses will slow, the people will slow.
SAM: So right here, it slows. They're like, "What
the fuck's going on?"
ASHLY: We saw that Lorenzo was in the leading
cart, right?
MATT: The leading cart, yeah.
MARISHA: How far is your distance?
TALIESIN: I think we want to be a little further.
MARISHA: Okay, so, further.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MARISHA: I think we want to try and get the Slow
spell off after it's past the log, right?
SAM: They're already past us, then. We'll stop
them.
MARISHA: No! Because I'm here, I'm here, Caleb's
here, you're there. Because this will make them
funnel, which will gather them for Caleb's spell.
LIAM: And a row of carts, though, not a group.
MARISHA: What?
LIAM: It will make for a train, which will not get
them all within what I need. Maybe two of them.
MARISHA: Why don't you tradesies with me, then?
LIAM: They're still on a road, they're still
probably going to go, well. The risk of a straight
line of them.
ASHLY: How big were they? Would two, three of them
fit in that space?
MATT: The carts are about that wide.
ASHLY: Okay.
MARISHA: How wide is your spell?
MATT: They'd be going through one at a time.
MARISHA: Okay. It's a 40-foot radius?
ASHLY: Do we want them to go through one at a
time?
LIAM: It is a 40-foot cube.
SAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: A cube? I mean, it's a 40-foot cube.
TALIESIN: They'll always be in a line.
LIAM: Maybe. It's dicey. It's right on the cusp,
probably, for two or three. Two is better than
none, slowed down.
TALIESIN: If the front one is slowed down then
they're all going to be slowed through there.
SAM: Or we do this, we slow them or whatever, and
then--
TALIESIN: And now they're ready for a fight.
SAM: Then they get here, "Oh, crack!" Or maybe we
stop them first, crash, stop, everything stops,
then we hit them with Slow.
LIAM: That's great, but they're still in a line.
MARISHA: Why would they be in a line? You're just
assuming they're going to be in a line instead of
clumped together.
LIAM: That's awesome, excuse me, that is fucking
wunderbar. That is wunderbar if they were all
clumped together, but I'm going to give it a 50/50
chance of them being in a line.
TALIESIN: If you slow the first cart, then the
other two behind it are not going to be able to go
any faster, either.
(metal clanging)
SAM: Oh, fuck!
ASHLY: Then we should probably wait until they're
deeper in, and we can attack them, right?
LIAM: That is true. If they're in a train, we wait
for cart number two to be in that bottleneck, and
then I try to get the first two. The third one's
not going to go anywhere. What we're losing is--
the more of these assholes who you used to be a
part of are, it's not just the carts, it's them.
They can do less to us if I hit them. But you
know, it's not perfect. There's no perfect situation.
SAM: So should we let one cart go first, and
then?
LIAM: Yeah.
ASHLY: I think so. The second cart in the
bottleneck is when we should go.
TALIESIN: And then we can push the tree on the
first cart. That'll be fun.
LIAM: Oh, that is a lot of fun.
SAM: On the first cart?
LIAM: Ja, on the first one.
MARISHA: On the first one, you Slow the second
one. We attack, we win. Still winning is part of
this plan. I just want to make sure that that's
clear.
LIAM: Thank you, Mr. Sheen.
MARISHA: Yes.
SAM: So the first thing that happens is the trunk,
the tree.
LIAM: Correct.
ASHLY: Yes.
SAM: The second thing that happens is Slow. The
third thing that happens is I pop out of the tree trunk--
MARISHA: Look for our friends.
SAM: Which cart are they going to be on?
ASHLY: Do I know that?
MATT: You have no idea.
SAM: Which should I start with? The small one or a
big one?
TALIESIN: The first one, since it's damaged.
ASHLY: Yeah, there's no way to know. If you go on
the third, then you might be less likely to be seen.
TALIESIN: Or the first one would be more engaged
with us.
ASHLY: Or that.
SAM: Did I give you a scroll of Invisibility?
MARISHA: Oh yeah, who has that shit? Yeah, you do,
don't you?
TALIESIN: If you're invisible, you could maybe
help get everybody out.
SAM: Could you use it on me? Or would that ruin
your books?
LIAM: No, it won't ruin my books, it's just. I would
only be able to use it this one time, then it's gone.
MARISHA: Because you haven't transcribed it?
LIAM: Do you have any paper? Yeah. It would be
gone either way.
TALIESIN: You wouldn't be able to commit it to
memory and then rewrite it later?
MARISHA: You're out of paper?
LIAM: (sighs) No, I mean, I do have a very
near-perfect memory.
TALIESIN: But it's near-perfect.
LIAM: Near-perfect.
MARISHA: But you're out of paper?
LIAM: Yeah.
TALIESIN: How long does Invisibility last?
SAM: An hour?
MATT: I think it lasts for an hour, or until--
LIAM: But there's no Slow if there's Invisibility.
Oh, but it's a scroll.
MATT: Yeah, it ends for a target that attacks or
casts a spell. But it'll last for an hour
concentration, yes.
LIAM: I'm popping out of my German accent. If I
cast a concentration spell and then I use a
scroll, does it drop the concentration check on--
MATT: Yes it does. It's still you concentrating on
the spell.
LIAM: I think Slow is more beneficial than
Invisibility.
TALIESIN: Sure, but if you use the scroll once we
hear the bells, then we've got an hour. Your trap
goes off, your little alarm goes off,
Invisibility, then you wouldn't drop Invisibility,
that's not concentration.
MATT: They both are.
TALIESIN: Oh, then fine.
MATT: You can only have one or the other.
ASHLY: When is the trap going off? When does the
alarm go off?
LIAM: When they cross the finish line. I've set a
silver thread across the road and if they move
through that-- Anyone but us who walks through that
line will set it off and I will hear.
ASHLY: But they won't hear?
LIAM: No, no, no. It's in here.
MARISHA: And how many feet ahead did you set that?
LIAM: I wanted to do--
MATT: It's like 500--
LIAM: No, I wanted to do more than that. Let's say
200 yards.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Meters.
TALIESIN: I like this plan. It's ridiculous.
MARISHA: So are we doing Invisibility or no?
TALIESIN: No.
MATT: Are you guys happy to pull the trigger on
this?
LIAM: No, I am in favor of Slow over Invisibility.
I want to kill them.
MATT: Okay then.
LIAM: Sorry.
MATT: You have your placements. You've set the
scene. The evening requires some rest, if you're
to prepare for this by the morrow.
MARISHA: Yeah, I need to rest, I'm exhausted.
MATT: So, you set up a small camp here, without
light? Without fire?
LIAM: To confirm, step one is tree goes down on
cart one, if it's that way, right? Slow happens,
you can get a sneak attack in if it's an ambush.
SAM: I'm not going to attack, I'm just going to
jump on a cart in the fracas and try to find a
cage or two.
LIAM: And everyone else is going to start
whaling.
SAM: On people. On magic users.
LIAM: And that was a blonde pixie cut and a
half-orc? A bald half-orc?
MARISHA: The sorcerer is the half-elf.
SAM: Can you?
TALIESIN: There we are.
SAM: That's my voice, Ashly.
ASHLY: It's so beautiful.
SAM: Up there, in bush land, are you going to be
able to do anything?
MARISHA: Yeah, I can move 40 feet, my speed. I'm
pretty quick.
SAM: But that would get you on the cart with the
bad guys. You can't just rain down terror from above?
ASHLY: That's true, are any of us doing ranged
attacks?
TALIESIN: We're not ranged people.
SAM: I'm ranged.
MARISHA: I've got some pretty dope mobility.
TALIESIN: And you can do stuff once Slow's cast,
you can also do other things once it's rolling.
LIAM: Sure, I can dispel any magical stuff going
on in the cages shortly after, or improvise and
switch to long range destruction.
TALIESIN: If things look like they're trouble,
we'll just go with it.
LIAM: Ja, the plan will fuck up I'm sure, but we
will scrap through, or die. Rather than choose who
we're going to attack in the moment, I saw through
my owl the half-orc with his hood down is a bald
man. I would say let's look for that one first.
ASHLY: That's the leader, that's Lorenzo.
LIAM: That's Liam, not Caleb. Everyone else was
hooded, so we don't know.
MARISHA: I think Lorenzo is going to be a problem,
because he has reach, and he's a leader.
LIAM: I would say then that whichever one reveals
them first, either half-orc or woman with a
pixie cut, whoever reveals themself first, we'll
say that is the one that we all target at the same
time. We focus our attention to one and kill them,
and they are out of the picture, instead of
splitting between two.
MARISHA: If we find that half-orc, druids tend to have
healing abilities.
LIAM: Ja, but if they don't reveal themselves
first--
MARISHA: I'm just saying, if they reveal
themselves at the same time.
TALIESIN: Go for the druid first?
LIAM: Correct. That's wise.
TALIESIN: All right. That'll do. We've got a
plan.
MATT: You're setting up camp without fire for the
evening? Or are you lighting a fire for warmth?
ASHLY: I feel like we shouldn't.
MARISHA: I feel like we shouldn't, either.
SAM: We'll huddle together.
MARISHA: We share body warmth by all spooning in a
chain.
TALIESIN: We do set up the tent.
MATT: You set up the tent behind the hill. You
spoon for warmth.
ASHLY: I hate it.
SAM: Who's Lucky Pierre? Who's in the middle?
TALIESIN: Aren't we all?
LIAM: Probably Mollymauk.
TALIESIN: I'm very cold, but yeah, that'll work.
MATT: You muster through an evening of
uncomfortable but necessary closeness, which, it's
a very cold night. A faint bit of snowfall greets
you in the morning. Not enough to coat the place
in white yet. It's these soft little flakes making
their way down. A ways up on the road, a few miles
out, there is a front of gray heading your way. It
looks to be a wall of snowfall that probably is
going to be coming about mid-day or so in your
direction. There's some mist in the distance. You
come to; you shake it off. You're a bit stiff from
a night of not necessarily comfortable rest, but a
long rest is had. You lose your exhaustion points.
As you take a moment, Caleb, the bells go off.
SAM: They're already here.
LIAM: Up, up!
MARISHA: Do I still have the dodecahedron?
MATT: You do, if you want. You would have to redo
it again. Whoever wants to do it has to do it now.
MARISHA: I toss it to Nott.
SAM: I look in.
MATT: Okay. You guys aren't treating it like a--
LIAM: It's totally whippets.
MATT: Whippets from Xhorhas. This is great.
LIAM: No, every time it's magical and very
special.
TALIESIN: I imagine it's a whippet that looks like
the Matrix of Leadership from Transformers.
(singing) "You got the touch!"
LIAM: Anytime Caleb does it, he sees all
timelines, but in the interest of brevity--
MATT: As you guys are in your places, the first
cart comes up.
TALIESIN: Are we really doing this now?
SAM: Before we go, I'm going to whisper to Caleb:
Caleb, if anything goes shitty, I'm going to throw
my flask of oil on the first cart. Light it on
fire.
LIAM: Understood.
MATT: All right. As this one comes through, you
notice the person who's guiding it is your friend, Protto.
SAM: Clarota?
ASHLY: Protto.
TALIESIN: Wrong timeline.
MATT: Continues to push it along, and they
separate as they see the coming pinch of the road.
Behind that, you see the central one. This has the
one figure that you don't recognize who's driving
the cart, and walking alongside it is Lorenzo.
This one begins to continue forward, and this
pushes forward as well.
SAM: Oh shit! I'm so scared.
MARISHA: Me too. I'm so scared.
SAM: Hold me, Ashly!
MATT: On the sides of this, there is the half-orc
druid. That's Dwelma, and Ruzza, who's the
half-elf.
MARISHA: That's the sorcerer. These are the two
magic users.
MATT: In the back is the small singular cart
that's being ridden by one figure, and there,
helming the end, is Juam, the human rage-filled
warrior, the one that you've had the better
experience with.
MARISHA: The barbarian is a human?
MATT: Correct. Pushing forward until about there.
SAM: Come on, Keg.
ASHLY: Okay. Am I doing this?
MATT: Are you doing this?
ASHLY: I'm felling the tree? Okay. Is this a
strength check?
MARISHA and SAM: (chanting) Keg, Keg, Keg!
MATT: Roll a strength check.
ASHLY: That is an 18.
MATT: The tree immediately falls forward off the
side, snapping at where it was left.
SAM: How did you have that?
(laughter)
MATT: Actually, all of these tree pieces were sent
by our friends at Steamforge as gifts. I was like,
"I get to use these at some point," and you guys
are using them tonight. Falling and snapping right
at the front half of the cart, breaking through.
I'm going to give Protto an attempt to try and
dodge out of the way. He succeeds with a dexterity
saving throw, because he's quite dexterous. He
jumps back into the front of the cart, and you
watch his lower half vanish as he stops there.
ASHLY: Am I revealed, or am I hidden by the
stump?
MATT: You don't know. Actually, that's a valid
point. I'm going to have you guys all roll stealth checks.
TALIESIN: With advantage, because we had time?
LIAM: In advance, you mean?
MATT: Yeah, I'll say in advance.
ASHLY: Am I at disadvantage? I'm not moving,
though.
LIAM: Yes, Vax die, yes!
ASHLY: 12.
LIAM: 19.
MARISHA: 20.
SAM: 18.
TALIESIN: 20.
MATT: All of you are pretty stealthy, except for
you. As the tree falls onto the ground, all the
horses suddenly rear up, and you've actually
broken where the horses are attached to that cart.
The axel snaps.
LIAM: That was my trigger.
MATT: At which point, the carts back up at this
point. There's a shout in the back and you hear
Protto go like, "Boss, what is--" At which point,
you're doing what?
LIAM: Slow, and I will target these four assholes
right here, I think I can get in one go, probably.
40-foot cube.
MATT: First, for the sake of order here, because
we are engaging in a series of aggressive actions,
let's all roll initiative, please.
SAM: Ah! Is that cocked? I can't tell if that's
cocked. I need a ruling from-- oh, it fell.
LIAM: Roll again.
MARISHA: Add my boots.
TALIESIN: Pretty good.
LIAM: Miss the Percy mega-initiative?
TALIESIN: Yes. I didn't even really understand how
good I had it. I was so used to being okay no
matter what, even if I rolled a one.
MATT: First order of business here for initiative.
I'm going to sit down for this one real fast,
write it down. 25 to 20, anybody?
SAM: 21.
MARISHA: 20.
TALIESIN: I'm so glad you're first. That's great.
MATT: Beau and Nott up first. 20 to 15?
TALIESIN: 18.
LIAM: 14.
MATT: 14, you said, Caleb?
LIAM: Ja, vierzehn.
MARISHA: A lot of bad guys there.
MATT: That brings us to--
LIAM: Evil party, evil party.
MATT: What'd you get?
ASHLY: Eight. I'm rolling poop on initiative.
SAM: Hey, don't leave! We might be ending now!
MATT: As the tree snaps and hits, he shouts back.
Immediately the group looks out at all sides,
taking this as a means of assault, Lorenzo
glancing over and directly locking eyes with you,
Keg. There's a look of taken aback and surprised.
Before any reaction happens, though, you do get
your action. You are casting Slow, you said?
LIAM: Indeed I am. Molasses goes across my hand
and I draw my hand down through the air, and I
focus on these four, if I can. It's a 40-foot
cube, putting this one in a corner.
MATT: How many can you target with this?
LIAM: Up to six in a 40-foot cube.
MATT: Up to six? That'll be quite a lot. You can
get all of these guys, if you want to.
LIAM: All of them?
MATT: Well, let's see, because it's (counting) 40,
yeah. This whole section here.
LIAM: Well, you know, fuck it. Let's also get this
horse.
MATT: There's six people there.
LIAM: Oh, there's six of them? Oh, wow, yes!
MATT: There's the one who's helming this horse,
the one who's helming these horses, the back of
the cart, and then those four.
LIAM: Yes, never mind. I didn't think we were
getting all of those people. Good. All of the humanoids.
MATT: For the two thugs that are on the horses,
two and a three. Natural two and a three. They are
both slowed.
TALIESIN: What does Slow mean, by the way?
LIAM: Half speed, negative two to armor class, no
reactions, and they can either do an action or a
bonus action; they can't do both.
TALIESIN: Oh my god, that's amazing.
LIAM: They can attempt to cast a spell, but--
TALIESIN: That means you can attack and then
disengage for free. That's amazing!
MATT: Ruzza does not succeed. Ruzza is slowed.
MARISHA: Ruzza, the sorcerer! Did the druid save?
MATT: The druid does save. The barbarian-- the
barbarian does not save.
MARISHA: The druid saved, Dwelma.
MATT: And Lorenzo-- that is a 17. Saves.
MARISHA: That's pretty dope, though.
MATT: This all happens. Combat has begun. Starting
at the top of the combat order: Beau, you're up first.
MARISHA: No, Nott is. Nott rolled a 21 and I
rolled a 20.
MATT: Oh! Got you. I put them in the wrong order.
SAM: We're starting this? I don't know how I'm
going to get on this fucking cart! How am I going to
get on this cart? I'm not invisible!
LIAM: Your charisma, Sam! Your charisma.
SAM: All right. I'll run past Lorenzo. As I run, I
will dump all my oil on him.
MATT: Okay, that's your action.
SAM: Yep, that's my action.
MATT: (splashing) He looks at it, sees you dart
by.
SAM: Bonus action disengage.
MATT: Okay. He can't make an attack of opportunity
on you.
SAM: And jump into the cart and start doing this.
MATT: This big one there?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: You dart in, and as soon as your vision
comes through, you come face-to-face with a metal cage.
SAM: Oh, shit!
MATT: Right there in front of you. For you who can
watch, the back half of Nott is still visible. The
entire cart is filled with cages. Front to back.
SAM: They're invisible cages?
MATT: The cages are blanketed by some sort of
illusion.
SAM: The part of me that hit the cage is now
invisible also?
MATT: Correct, but just the front half. It looks
like Nott vanishes partway through, like you've
stepped through part of a doorway. On the inside,
you see a very sweaty human man who is gagged and
leaned up against the cage like, (whines). He
looks up towards you.
SAM: That's all I've got.
MATT: That's all you've got.
TALIESIN: Can you get a little bit more around
the-- or is that all your movement?
SAM: I'm sure I pushed as far as I could.
MARISHA: Okay. I'm probably more than 40 feet away
from the druid?
MATT: You can just get to the druid at 40 feet.
(counting) You do have to get down there.
MARISHA: Sweet jump.
MATT: Make an acrobatics check.
SAM: Come on, this is what you live for!
MARISHA: It is what I live for! Ten!
MATT: You manage to land without losing your
footing. You get right up to the druid there.
MARISHA: Oh, fuck. Okay. Two attacks. First
attack, okay! That's a natural 16, plus seven is
21. Right? 16 plus seven?
TALIESIN: 21.
MARISHA: 21, and that's eight damage.
MATT: That is.
MARISHA: I'm going to spend a ki point to do
Stunning Strike.
MATT: That is a natural 15 plus three is 18.
MARISHA: That really sucks.
SAM: You've got ball bearings!
MARISHA: I do have ball bearings. Take my second
hit.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: That's 20 total.
MATT: 20 total? Okay.
MARISHA: Yeah. Another eight damage. I'm going to
spend another ki point to try Stunning Strike again.
MATT: All righty.
MARISHA: What was that, plus three?
MATT: 15. What's the DC?
MARISHA: 14.
LIAM: Nope.
SAM: It's a perfect plan.
MARISHA: I'm burning through so many ki points.
SAM: It's now or never.
MARISHA: I'm going to spend one more ki point to
do Patient Defense because I'm probably going to
need it now.
MATT: Okay, going into defensive mode. That
finishes Beau's go.
MARISHA: Three ki points! Burning them out.
SAM: Ki questions.
MATT: All right. It's now Ruzza's turn, who is
slowed.
LIAM: If you attempt to cast a spell with a
casting time of one action--
MATT: It doesn't go off until the next turn.
LIAM: Right.
SAM: Wow, Slow is the best!
MATT: Ruzza's going to step back, looking towards
Lorenzo, and goes, "Boss, this is so weird." It's
weird to hear this slowed-down, deeper voice
coming out of this female half-elf, but
nevertheless, here we are. As she steps away and
begins-- She does give a bit of bardic inspiration
to Lorenzo, because she's technically not a
sorcerer.
SAM: Not a sorcerer?! You got it wrong!
MATT: That's as much as you know.
TALIESIN: Is that a bonus action, though? You have
to do an action or a bonus action, you can't do both.
MATT: Oh, that's right! So they're not doing
that.
LIAM: Read the cards, people! Read the cards!
TALIESIN: No dubstep today. No wub wub.
MATT: Still saying that phrase, but not in an
inspirational way. Is going to cast, glancing over
in your direction as the source of it.
LIAM: Knew where I was? My stealth was that
shitty?
MATT: Once you cast the spell you reveal yourself,
buddy. That's how it works, unfortunately.
SAM: The cover of bush?
ASHLY: He's bushman!
SAM: Yeah, we had him all bushed.
LIAM: I'm going to die. It's fine.
MATT: This is going to be-- Yeah, let's do some
Hypnotic Pattern. Why not?
SAM: He'll resist it.
MATT: He begins (slow incantation) and slowly
backs to here, getting up on the hill, climbing to
get some better visual perspective over the
battlefield. That's going to end Ruzza's turn,
Molly, you're up.
TALIESIN: I look at Keg and: You got that one?
ASHLY: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Right. I'm going to start my movement.
I've got 30 feet of movement. I can get almost to
the edge of this mountain, right?
MATT: You can get right there.
TALIESIN: That's 30 feet?
MATT: That's 30 feet there.
TALIESIN: Then I can teleport how far?
MATT: 30 feet.
TALIESIN: Can I get to flanking?
MATT: Flanking? To there, you mean?
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
MATT: Yeah, you can do that.
TALIESIN: Is that way more than-- I have a 30 foot
teleport, right?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Is it possible to do it halfway through
my movement so I still have two steps that I can
take? No, never mind. Eff it, I'm good. I'm not
going to fight it. I'm going to take two attacks.
SAM: Yes!
MATT: Go for it.
TALIESIN: I have advantage.
MATT: You do.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: I assume you had your rites prepared.
TALIESIN: Both are up.
SAM: Come on, motherfucker!
TALIESIN: Yeah, that's 19. Yeah, that hits. The
first one is awful: seven points of damage.
MATT: Seven points of damage? All righty.
TALIESIN: Second one is 16, 17, yeah, that's 16
plus seven.
MATT: That hits, roll damage.
TALIESIN: That's better. 12 points of damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage! You're carving through.
She's not slowed by the impact of the spell and
taking these wounds, hurting her quite a bit.
She's not horribly maimed, but is starting to show
some wear from the strikes that she's suffered.
That ends your turn. That brings us to Lorenzo. Hmm.
SAM: Wow, we stumped him.
MARISHA: I know, so quiet!
SAM: The only good plan that we've ever made is
without Travis and Laura here. Let's make that clear.
MARISHA: I'm still stoked on our-- was it
Umbrasyl? The frost dragon?
TALIESIN: That was pretty solid.
SAM: Are you doing a throwback right now?
MARISHA: Yes, I am.
LIAM: Vorugal was the frost. Umbrasyl was black
acid.
MARISHA: When Vorugal fought Yenk.
MATT: Lorenzo, watching you and your friends,
shouts out in your direction and goes--
LIAM: Slowed.
MATT: Well, he's not slowed.
LIAM: Oh, he saved.
MATT: "Keg! I don't know what you're trying here,
but I think the line's been drawn." He's going to
step over here, pushing through the horses,
leaping over in the direction of where Nott is
there and is going to shout out, "Hey! Move
aside!" and holds his hand out in front of him.
That's going to end his turn.
SAM: Oh no.
LIAM: He's casting!
SAM: He can cast?! I thought you said he was a
fighter! Your information is the worst!
ASHLY: I'm not very smart!
MATT: Protto is currently like freaking out by
this, sees this all happening, narrowingly missed
the tree slamming into him, goes and pulls out his
bow and nocks an arrow into it and is going to
take a shot. Let's see, the one he saw dart that
way's going to be Molly. He's going to fire at Molly.
TALIESIN: He's going to have a hard time doing
that. Disadvantage.
MATT: What's the range on it?
TALIESIN: Of my Blood Maledict?
MATT: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Let's see. I'm not looking at the right
thing. Where is it?
MATT: Is it a 30 or 60 foot range?
TALIESIN: Blood Maledict!
MATT: For your Blood Curse of the Eyeless?
TALIESIN: Yeah, it's 60 feet!
MATT: 60 feet? Yeah, that'll do it!
TALIESIN: Amplified.
MATT: Amplified, so disadvantage on-- He gets two
strikes.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I take a lot of damage for that.
Five points of damage.
MATT: First one with disadvantage is going to be
16 to hit? What's your armor class?
TALIESIN: For fuck's sake! 15.
MATT: 15, so that hits. Because you're adjacent to
an ally of his, he gets sneak attack bonus on that.
TALIESIN: God fucking damn it!
SAM: Rogues are the worst.
MATT: That's going to put him--
LIAM: Slash the best!
MATT: To be fair, it's a shitty sneak attack roll.
That's a total of 14 points of piercing damage
from the first arrow into your shoulder.
TALIESIN: All right.
MATT: The other one is going to be--
TALIESIN: Did he get disadvantage on the other
attack as well?
MATT: He did, yeah.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: 16, on this one.
SAM: Oh!
TALIESIN: 16?
MATT: Because it was an 11 and a ten he rolled
and it's plus six on his attacks.
TALIESIN: Okay, so they both hit.
MATT: Okay, the other one just deals six points of
piercing damage.
SAM: Oh, that wasn't damage. I thought that was
damage, okay.
MATT: He's going to jump off and move over here,
up onto the top to get a good view since he's a
ranged guy with his arrows. He's keeping down and
getting ready for that.
MARISHA: No, I ran over there. I'm fighting the
druid!
SAM: Oh, you ditched. That's fine.
MATT: That's going to go ahead and-- that was his
action surge and everything, so he's done. Next
up. Bear with me, guys. There is a lot going on
right here.
SAM: Yeah, there's 12 players.
MATT: Caleb, your turn.
LIAM: We're back to me?
MATT: Yeah, you had the ambush round technically
because it was the trigger, Slow, and then
everything happened at once. The tree triggered
the ambush seeing you, so the only one who got a
round off was you for the spell.
LIAM: I cast Dispel Magic on the cages or I could
attack the person about to attack me.
MARISHA: Who's going to attack you?
LIAM: That's what I would do. I will use the Glove
of Blasting to fire on the person attacking me.
SAM: Which one?
TALIESIN: The one on the hill.
LIAM: The one on the hill.
MARISHA: The sorcerer.
LIAM: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, go for it. Roll for attacks on that.
LIAM: Yeah, three of those.
MATT: Minus two to their armor class.
LIAM: First one does not hit, that is a 12.
MATT: Goes wide.
LIAM: Second is-- Sorry. 17?
MATT: 17 hits.
LIAM: Oh, it was 16 on the last one! Does that
hit?
MATT: That would hit!
LIAM: Thank you! The third one definitely misses.
That's a two plus eight, that's ten.
MATT: Okay, so two hits. It's 4d6.
LIAM: 4d6.
MATT: Not a bad opening round.
LIAM: Not that great. Ten damage, fire damage.
They have to make a constitution save?
MATT: Yes. To maintain?
LIAM: Oh, they were casting an attack. Well, I
don't know what they were casting.
MATT: They still have to make a concentration
check to see if they can finish with their
casting, yeah. That is a 13 plus two. That is a
15. So yeah, they're fine.
LIAM: Yeah, they're fine.
MATT: Is that the end of your turn, Caleb? Staying
where you are?
LIAM: I will lie down flat on my back.
MATT: Okay! You go prone? Caleb goes prone. Okay,
now it's the thugs' turn. They are slowed, so they
can't move too far. This one is going to move
back. That's as far as he can move, and he's going
to pull out his crossbow and he gets one shot,
because of the Slow spell. He's going to take it
towards you, Caleb, with disadvantage because
you're so far away.
TALIESIN: And prone.
MATT; Yeah, you're still within the minimum
distance, so with disadvantage regardless. That
is, with disadvantage, a 13. What's your armor
class?
LIAM: Shield. It doesn't hit.
MATT: The bolt goes wide. This guy here is also
slowed. He's going to attempt to back away.
SAM: Do the horses get an attack of opportunity?
MATT: They do not. He's going to attempt to use
the edge of the tree for some cover as he takes a
shot at Beau.
MARISHA: Disadvantage.
MATT: Yep. And that is going to be a 13 again!
MARISHA: Miss, yeah.
SAM: We're still alive!
MATT: Now it is Juam's turn, who is slowed, and
right here, next to Caleb, is going to take a
strike at you. Not technically-- only gets one
attack, so the first one would've been 12.
TALIESIN: Yeah, nope.
MATT; Spends 15 feet of movement backing away
there, as the boss said. You do get an attack of
opportunity if you'd like to take it.
TALIESIN: I used my reaction.
MATT: Oh, you did! That's right, you do not.
TALIESIN: Do I still have a second Blood Maledict,
by the way, this round? I can spend another round
doing it. I know we changed the rules slightly. At
fifth level, do I get two uses or just two options?
MATT: I'll have to double check.
TALIESIN: All right. When we get there.
MATT: That's the two thugs' turns. That's Juam's
turn. Keg, you're up.
SAM: All right, Keg! Kill them all in one turn!
From 45 feet away.
ASHLY: I feel like narratively, Keg is actually
pretty freaked right now. Is it weird to ever give
yourself disadvantage on things narratively?
MATT: No, it makes sense! We've all done it to
some degree.
LIAM: It's Sam's raison d'tre.
ASHLY: Okay, so I'm going to give myself
disadvantage on everything I'm going to try to do
this turn, because seeing Lorenzo again I think
has really freaked Keg out.
SAM: He is covered in oil, which makes him kind of
sexy.
ASHLY: I'm aroused and scared?
MATT: Which, the armor that Lorenzo is wearing--
you've seen it before. It's studded leather, but
it's straps and hooks. The theme of it resembles
very much elements of his profession, or at least
reminding you what he does. So the oil weirdly
does make it strangely erotic. It's your turn, you
have 25 feet of movement, so that'll only get you
about five squares of movement.
ASHLY: Okay, I'm going to run. I'm going to run--
SAM: Away?
ASHLY: Away.
SAM: Jesus. Ugh, you're the worst!
ASHLY: I'm roleplaying!
MATT: Are you running towards the action or away
from it?
ASHLY: I'll run towards this-- no, I'm going to
run towards those horses. I'm going to run that way.
MATT: Make an acrobatics check to leap down.
ASHLY: Terrible. Awful. Five.
MATT: Okay, so you lose the last five feet of
movement. That's your movement there.
ASHLY: My javelin can't go very far, right?
MATT: Your javelin has a pretty decent range. Does
it have the ranges next to it in the app? That's
okay, I have it here. The javelin-- it's 30 and
120 feet. So it can go 30 feet without
disadvantage and 120 feet with disadvantage.
LIAM: But you said everything's at disadvantage?
MATT: So you might as well.
ASHLY: Might as well, yeah. So is Protto within 120
feet?
MATT: Protto is. Right up there on the hill,
getting his arrows nocked.
ASHLY: Okay. I hate him definitively, so I'm going
to throw at Protto. With disadvantage. Five.
MATT: Completely passes over.
ASHLY: I can use my bonus action to move again? Or
no, I can't.
MATT: No, you can't. That's where you are. You can
take another javelin attack, because you have
three javelins.
ASHLY: I'll try again.
MATT: You get one more swing at him.
ASHLY: No. Doesn't work. That's terrible. I won't
even bother.
MATT: Both javelins miss. You're shaken by this
experience.
TALIESIN: You did throw two javelins at an
irritating creature, so that's good.
LIAM: Get the nerves out. Get the nervousness
out.
MATT: It's now Dwelma's turn. Dwelma is going to
cast Dispel Magic.
MARISHA: Does that mean I get to take an attack on
her?
MATT: Not unless you have the War Caster--
MARISHA: Mage Slayer?
MATT: Mage Slayer, I mean.
MARISHA: I almost took that. Took Sentinel
instead.
TALIESIN: It's going to take two turns though,
right?
MATT; She wasn't affected by Slow.
TALIESIN: Ah, really?
MARISHA: Yeah. She was one of the ones that saved.
That's why I was trying to stun her.
SAM; What do you cast Dispel Magic on?
MATT: The magical effect, which is the Slow
effect.
SAM: And it will do it over all of the--?
MATT: If it's any spell third level or lower, the
target ends, so Slow fades.
SAM: Oh no.
MARISHA: Fuck! That's why I was trying to stun
her! I think she still could have done it, though.
MATT: Not from being stunned, she couldn't.
MARISHA; Oh, well, cool. Feels really good about
failing it twice now.
MATT; Sorry! She's going to move to this side.
Actually, and is going to run. So you both get
attacks of opportunity on her.
TALIESIN: You get an attack of opportunity.
MARISHA: That's not very good at all. 12.
MATT: 12 is not going to hit! Not with Barkskin,
sorry. Actually, no! She doesn't have Barkskin
because of the ambush. She hasn't had time to cast
it, so it's an AC of 11. You do hit!
MARISHA: What? She doesn't move anywhere!
MATT: She is stuck there.
TALIESIN: Well actually, no. Can you freeze her?
MARISHA: She's not moving. She can't move and she
takes five damage.
TALIESIN: She's still between the two of us. She
couldn't have circled.
MATT: No, she circled around. It's when she leaves
the range, so she gets stuck there. That ends her
turn. Now Lorenzo's turn's going to trigger.
SAM: What the fuck is that?! He's a dragon-man?!
What is this?
ASHLY: What is happening?
LIAM: That is huge.
SAM: Jesus! What the fuck is that?!
LIAM: I don't know. That's your call.
MATT: I think it just misses you. It's right
there.
LIAM: That's why I go far away.
ASHLY: What the fuck?!
MATT: As a Cone of Cold bursts forth from--
(whooshing) Lorenzo smiles as his friends have
come out of the way, and this burst of freezing
cold arcane energy swirls in front of him,
flash-freezing everything in front, including the
cart, actually.
ASHLY: So Nott gets frozen too?
MATT: Nott has to make a reflex save. Beau and
Molly have to make-- sorry, dexterity save. Oh,
that's a relic!
MARISHA: Natural 20.
MATT: Nice!
SAM: You know what? I'll use my luck.
TALIESIN: 19.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Yeah, don't get frozen.
SAM: Terrible!
MARISHA: Oh no!
ASHLY: Oh no, what was it?
SAM: 11.
MATT: Oh, buddy. All right. Okay. What did you
roll?
TALIESIN: 19.
MATT: 19, okay. Nott, you take 41 points of cold
damage.
SAM: I'll halve that.
MATT: Okay, so you use your reaction to halve
that.
ASHLY: Did you say, I'm sorry, 41? Four-one?
Okay.
MATT: Molly, you take-- that would be 20 points of
cold damage.
TALIESIN: Jesus Christ.
MATT: Beau, you take 20 points of cold damage.
MARISHA: Fuck!
TALIESIN: 20 points?
MATT: Yep. As it triggers and the frost finishes
off in the space there, Lorenzo, grinning, looks
over his shoulder back at Keg and goes like, "Am I
going to have to make a lesson here?"
SAM: Oh no, he's winning!
MATT: That brings us to the top of the round.
Nott, you're up.
SAM: All right, I think I have to use an action to
unlock this cage. To pick the lock.
MATT: Go for it. Make your lockpick check.
SAM: Fuck you! Five plus, I don't know. What is it
usually, seven?
MATT: Dex and proficiency, so it would be seven,
yeah.
SAM: 12?
MATT: It's not enough. You spend a moment and the
lock is not going. These are pretty intense cages,
and you look over there, and Lorenzo's standing
there with the glaive.
SAM: I'm going to move around the cages or between
them, so that I turn completely invisible.
MARISHA: That's a good call.
MATT: You move through a very small gap, they're
pushed up against each other. Make a strength
check to see if you can push through; you might
not be able to.
SAM: Nope! That's a three.
MATT: You can't push through it; the cages are too
close. The small gap there, you try to muscle it,
but there are two to three people in each cage,
and you can't push though.
SAM: Can I use my bonus action to-- Jesus, what
can I do for my bonus action? I can't hide. Can I hide?
MATT: You could try, you're partially obscured.
SAM: I got nothing else to do on a bonus action.
So yeah, I will try to hide.
ASHLY: Lorenzo's eyeing him right now, you said?
SAM: I'll go on the side of the cart and--
MATT: Lorenzo's eyeing in that direction.
SAM: I'll hide off the side of the cart.
MATT: Okay, make a stealth check.
SAM: Oh, that's wonderful. It's 29!
MATT: You appear, within your mind, to have
vanished from the current sight.
SAM: Of at least Lorenzo.
MATT: All righty. That brings us to, finishing
Nott, Beau, your turn.
MARISHA: Oh God! Damn, this fucking druid. I'm
just going to lay into the druid.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Okay, first attack. Natural 20!
MATT: Oh, snap!
MARISHA: Thank you, Gil! That's doubling dice
damage. Big money, come on! Six plus four: ten.
MATT: Ten damage. Oof, Dwelma's looking rough.
MARISHA: Really?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: Second attack. 14 plus seven, so 21.
MATT: Although technically when the Slow spell
finished, a Hypnotic Pattern may have gone off.
Yeah, that would have gone off. So make your
wisdom saving throw, if you don't mind.
LIAM: No, I don't mind at all.
SAM: May I ask a weird question, Matt?
MATT: Yes.
SAM: The guy that I was trying to break out of the
cage: is he alive?
MATT: Glancing around the area, it looks like the
people that were right on the outer edge of the
cages are frozen.
SAM: Would I have seen that before I tried to
unlock the cage?
MATT: The guy who's near you, he's fine. They
blocked the impact there. It was your latter half
that was sticking out that got blasted.
SAM: Okay, cool.
LIAM: I rolled a 22.
MATT: 22, all right, so the Hypnotic Pattern does
not affect you. Well done.
MARISHA: I did 11 damage on my second attack on
her.
MATT: She goes down.
MARISHA: Fuck yes!
SAM: Down like dead?
MATT: Like unconscious and bleeding out.
TALIESIN: Do you have any more attacks left?
MARISHA: I have my bonus. Can I move and then
attack again?
MATT: Yeah, if you want to.
TALIESIN: Or you could hit them while they're down
and help them bleed out.
MARISHA: I thought about that, but I have enough
movement that I can make it to the barbarian, right?
MATT: You could.
MARISHA: Are you going to handle Lorenzo? Who's
going to handle Lorenzo? (shouting) Who's going to
handle Lorenzo? Fuck! I'm going to jump over the
horses' asses and get to Lorenzo.
MATT: You are.
TALIESIN: Oh dear.
MATT: Okay. Make an acrobatics check.
MARISHA: 14.
MATT: You get over the horses. Where are you going
to stand, on the cart? There's not a lot of room
here to stand to fight and you'd have to get
over--
MARISHA: I have 40 feet of movement, so wherever I
can go.
MATT: I'll say you can get back right here.
SAM: Yes, land on the horse's back!
MARISHA: Can I land on the horse's back?
MATT: Sure, why not?
LIAM: Now you're mounted!
MATT: So you're on the horse.
MARISHA: I'm on a horse. Am I within range of
him?
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: He's right there.
MARISHA: I'm in combat range of him.
MATT: Yes you are.
MARISHA: I'm going to spend another ki point to do
Patient Defense. I don't trust this motherfucker.
Hopefully that's useful.
MATT: That ends your turn?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: That brings us to Ruzza. Ruzza, who watched
the druid go down, sees you over there being
really defensive and looks around. He's going to
attempt to cast Hold Person at level three. I need
Mollymauk and Beau to make wisdom saving throws
please.
TALIESIN: Motherfucker.
SAM: You got this, guys. You got this. Big rolls!
TALIESIN: 25.
MARISHA: 21.
MATT: Completely resists it. Shit.
LIAM: Burned it! Burn that shit!
MATT: Back up around the tree trunk there. That
ends her turn. Molly, you're up.
TALIESIN: There's no way to get through--
MATT: Thank you for sticking with us. I know this
is going late, but I want to see how this turns
out. We've been gone for two weeks. Consider it a
bonus episode.
TALIESIN: There's no way I can make it to Lorenzo
from here, is there?
MATT: It's possible.
TALIESIN: Not anymore.
MATT: You can climb over the cart if you want to.
TALIESIN: I'm going to get my ass kicked if I get
there. I'm going to try and engage the barbarian
before raging happens.
MATT: It's up to you.
TALIESIN: God damn it. Fuck it, if you're in with
Lorenzo, I'm going for Lorenzo.
MATT: Okay, make an acrobatics check to try and
get over the cart without issue.
TALIESIN: Ten.
MATT: Ten? You lose some movement, but you still
have enough to get right there. That's as close as
you get. Lorenzo's technically supposed to be in
that space.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take three attacks. I do
not have advantage, obviously.
MATT: No, you do not.
TALIESIN: First attack. Is that cocked or is that
okay?
SAM: Is it your big dice? It's cocked.
TALIESIN: Damn it! It was a 20. Now it's a 22.
ALL: Whoa!
MATT: Take your damage.
TALIESIN: That's (counting) 18 points of damage.
MATT: Nice!
TALIESIN: Not happy. Swipe number two. That's a
ten.
MATT: Ten does not hit.
TALIESIN: Then the other one is a three. That does
not hit either.
MATT: That first strike carves past. You see blood
spatter across the edge of the hillside. Lorenzo's
like, "All right, I see what you're doing. One for
one." Slams the glaive onto the ground. That ends
your turn, Molly. It is Lorenzo's turn. Lorenzo's
going to go ahead and make two glaive attacks
against you.
TALIESIN: I think I have a second Blood Maledict
usage now.
MATT: You're still level five.
TALIESIN: I know. I was looking, because I know
you changed things, and it says "Blood Maledict:
"You can invoke a blood curse a number of times per
short rest based on your levels. 2nd one, 5th two,
"9th three." I'm taking-- hoping this die rolls
worse, come on. For fuck's sake! My Blood Maledict
literally kills me. Actually, no, fuck, was I
going to do it advanced? I was going to do it
advanced. My own Blood Maledict knocks me
unconscious.
MARISHA: You get knocked unconscious?
TALIESIN: I was at four hit points. What was I
going to do?
MARISHA: Not that!
SAM: Oh god, is he still going to attack you?
MATT: First hit. You guys watch as Molly falls
back unconscious, Lorenzo looks confused. His
vision still obscured, the blindness.
MARISHA: Am I flanking Molly?
MATT: Yeah. Actually, you're not flanking, because
you're at an angle. You're on the horse. So no.
The first strike slams down into Molly's chest,
the blade actually sinking about seven inches into
the chest. Blood spatters out of your mouth. You
can use your reaction to make an attack.
MARISHA: I can, as Sentinel.
MATT: As Sentinel you can, yes.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
MARISHA: 14?
MATT: 14 does not hit, so it misses there.
MARISHA: Fuck!
MATT: Lorenzo looks back over towards Keg. Looks
up at you, Beau, and says, "An example it is."
Molly, in the brief moments of consciousness, what
do you want to be your last words?
SAM: Oh no!
ASHLY: Can I say: Wait!
MATT: No.
ASHLY: He's in it? It's done?
MATT: This is done.
SAM: Do you get a reaction? Do you have anything?
ASHLY: Maybe I could talk to him?
MATT: Molly, you have a brief moment. As the
consciousness and life leaves you, what are your
last words?
TALIESIN: (spitting) With blood.
SAM: Oh, god.
MATT: As it slams into his face, "Respect," and
then twists the blade. The life leaves Molly.
TALIESIN: Eyes never shut.
MATT: It's now Protto's turn. Protto is going to
take a single shot, because he used his action
surge. Now that he's gotten two javelin tossed,
he's going to fire at you, seeing that you're in
the proximity. That's a natural two, misses, off
your armor. You're not even paying attention.
You're looking over at this and you feel it
deflect. No impact. Caleb, your turn.
LIAM: I'm going to hold my turn, and cast a
Scorching Ray at the sorcerer the moment they do
anything. First, I will get up off of prone, into
a crouch.
MATT: Okay. The thugs take their turn. Both of
them are going to--
TALIESIN: I might need to leave the table for a
while.
MARISHA: No!
MATT: They're both going to back up and take two
crossbow shots at Beau. You have your Patient
Defense on?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I can't watch this.
SAM: Oh, god.
MATT: That is still a 16 and a 17 they rolled.
MARISHA: 16 misses, 17 hits.
MATT: That's right! First one, you deflect out of
the air.
SAM: Catch it.
MATT: No, she already used her reaction. And the
other one is--
MARISHA: I can still use Deflect Missiles, right,
to lower it?
MATT: You use your reaction to do it. But it
rolled a 15 to hit. You, watching this happen,
hear it deflected off. The other one you catch and
drop, still looking down at Molly's not-moving
body. As Lorenzo now grins back at you and says,
"Is it time for another, or have you learned your lesson?"
MARISHA: You should know: I have no respect for
authority.
MATT: "Then another life it is." All right, that
ends thugs' turn.
SAM: I'm invisible!
MATT: He does not see you.
ASHLY: As a quick reminder!
MATT: (counting) You're the closest there. The
barbarian goes pulling in, is going to use an
action to move up into melee with you, but that's
their turn. This is not looking good, guys. Which
brings us to Keg. Keg, you've seen these
situations before. What are you going to do?
ASHLY: Can I reach them with my speed?
MATT: Can you reach who?
ASHLY: Lorenzo and Beau.
MATT: No.
ASHLY: How close can I get?
MATT: With the tree there, about there is as close
as you can get. You can use your action to move,
but you wouldn't be able to do anything else.
ASHLY: But I can talk to him?
MATT: You can. You move up over the log, and it
gets you there.
ASHLY: I say: Stop! Stop! Make me the example.
Stop. Just stop attacking them.
MATT: Make a persuasion check.
ASHLY: 11.
MATT: Okay, that's your turn. Dwelma's bleeding
out. Nott, your turn.
SAM: What do I do? Lorenzo hasn't been hit yet,
has he?
ASHLY and MATT: He got hit once.
SAM: Once, but he's not going to go down.
MARISHA: He's covered in shit.
MATT: You hear Keg shouting and mid-battle
parleying.
MARISHA: There's the barbarian on Caleb, which is
not good.
SAM: I will first try to use a bonus action to use
item and pour acid on one of the locks. See if
that opens it.
MATT: Okay. You pour acid on the lock. It's going
to take a moment. Acid isn't an immediate thing,
if you're not going to splash it on somebody. It
has to eat through metal.
SAM: Well, shit. Then I won't do that.
MATT: You would know that as an alchemist.
SAM: I will-- Shit, what do I do? I can't kill
anything here. I'm going to try the lock. I'm
going to try the lock. there's nothing else I can
do.
MATT: All right.
SAM: It's a natural one.
MATT: I think the signs are pointing in a
direction. What are you doing, Nott?
SAM: Yes, so movement and bonus, I will run
towards Caleb, but not directly at the barbarian.
MARISHA: That's a lot of time.
MATT: Beau, it's your turn. You see Nott run.
SAM: Let's see, movement is 30. How far could I
have gotten with just movement?
MATT: With just your movement?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: Right there.
SAM: Ah, okay. Yeah, so that's fine.
MATT: Beau, you see Keg rushing to parley. What do
you do?
MARISHA: I say: Hey Keg-- no wait, that's your
name-- Hey Lorenzo, this one's for Beau-- no,
fuck! I'm getting all my names fucked up because
I'm so stressed out! This one's for Molly and
Yasha, because we failed on this before. I'm going
to get it right this time. I'm going to take my
tinderbox and light it, and I'm going to-- right
onto him, light him on fire.
MATT: Okay, he's going to make a dexterity saving
throw.
MARISHA: I mean, I'm touching him with it.
MATT: I know. He fails.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: (flames erupting) Roll a d6 damage. He is on
fire.
MARISHA: d6 plus what?
MATT: Just d6 fire damage.
MARISHA: Four.
MATT: Four points of fire damage. There's now
flames curling off of his body. He's taking it.
MARISHA: I take my staff and pure brute anger,
right across his face.
MATT: Roll for it.
MARISHA: 12.
SAM: Get out of there!
MATT: (whoosh) He's not even looking at you. He's
looking at Keg.
SAM: Run!
MATT: She has his attention.
MARISHA: 18.
MATT: 18 does hit.
MARISHA: Six damage.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Run!
MARISHA: I take my movement and go towards Caleb
and Nott. Fuck.
MATT: There's a reflex for him to go ahead and
take an attack of opportunity on you with his
glaive, and then he flickers and looks back to
Keg, seeming more interested in what she has to
say. That ends your turn?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: All right. Ruzza's going to walk up.
MARISHA: Didn't you have a thing held for the
sorceress?
LIAM: The moment she does anything. That depends
on how you want to interpret that.
MATT: The moment she does anything, what were you
going to cast?
LIAM: Well, I meant do anything-- I guess do
anything to hurt us.
MATT: Okay. As you're watching her very
carefully-- She's going to do it. She's going to
step up and cast Cure Wounds.
SAM: (whispering) Oh, it's a slave. They get a
slave.
MARISHA: They're going to try and capture Molly?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: Molly's dead. Cure Wounds isn't going to
affect him. She reaches out and touches Lorenzo,
and he heals up a bit. She starts to try and pat
the flames out a little bit and he shoos her off.
Now it is Lorenzo's turn, because Molly doesn't
have a turn. Lorenzo's looking at you and says,
"Looks like we have an eye-for-an-eye scenario."
Points off at Dwelma, who at this point has bled out.
MARISHA: She's dead?
MATT: We'll say yes, she's bled out at this point.
"You say you want to be an example, huh?"
ASHLY: Will you let them go?
MATT: "Sure." Puts his hand up, flames still
curling up and burning his body, which, roll
another d6.
MARISHA: Another four damage.
SAM: Use your teleport spell!
ASHLY: I don't have one!
MATT: Puts his hand up with the glaive in the air,
and you watch as all the other thugs looking off
pull back their crossbows to the side. The
barbarian in front of you, Caleb, this woman whose
face is twisted in absolute rage, (panting,
snarling), puts the hammer down. Lorenzo says,
"We're going to make an example of our old friend.
Round up what you can. You walk with me, Keg," and
leads you back over to where the rest of you are.
As the warrior steps back, still burning, takes
and leads you here. They begin to move forward and
push the carts, begin to push the log off of this
to the side, and the warrior woman grabs the front
of the cart where the horses were and begins to
drag it forward. As it begins to pull away--
LIAM: Isn't one of them encased in ice?
MATT: It's a flash freeze, and then it goes away.
It's not like it keeps it there. As this one pulls
forward, one of the thugs grabs the body of their
druid and throws it over the top of the cart where
she seems to vanish, except for a leg dangling out
the side of the illusion. They go forward. Grabs
your shoulder and pushes you down onto your knees.
Do you do anything?
ASHLY: No.
MATT: Looks at the three of you. "The Iron
Shepherds have a reputation, and I expect you to
"tell everyone you come across what happened here
today, and what a mistake it is to turn against
"us." Pulls the glaive back slowly and leans into
your ear and says, "That's a bit too quick. I want
"you to live with the memory of what you did
today," and kicks you in the back and knocks you
onto your face. Turns around, finally pats out the
flames. "We're moving on! If I see any of your
"faces again-- (chuckles) Well, at least you'll be
able to see your friend on the other side."
MARISHA: Fuck you, Lorenzo.
MATT: "Fuck me, indeed," and he turns and joins
the rest of the caravan as it begins to pull back
on the path, leaving the four of you beaten,
bruised, and glancing off at the lifeless,
bloodied body of Mollymauk Tealeaf. And that's
where we're going to leave tonight's episode.
(exhales)
ASHLY: Fun guest star.
SAM: Wow, Ash.
MATT: Uh, sorry!
SAM: Good job, Ashly. Welcome to the game.
LIAM: You have destroyed the show.
ASHLY: Go ahead and see my way out!
MATT: No, this is part of the game.
SAM: No, it wasn't all your fault, just mostly.
MATT: That was a terrible convergence of events.
LIAM: Yeah, bad shit happens.
MATT: It does.
LIAM: Bad shit happens to mediocre people.
MATT: Wow. I'm going to sit down.
SAM: Oh, boy.
MATT: Well, thank you guys for sticking with us
this long. I know it's been a late night. Our
return after a week off, and the drama has
certainly kicked in. We'll pick this up next week.
Let's use this week to love each other.
MARISHA: Yeah, don't ream us for all the things we
probably did wrong.
MATT: No, please don't. Everyone here is playing
the game as best they can in the moment, and
honestly, a lot of it was dice swings and a lot of
it was circumstantial, and this is how the game
works. It's going to make for a great story, and
will continue to, because you guys have one
fucking villain now in your campaign. Oh, this is
going to be delicious. Be kind to each other. We
love you all very much. Let's take a week to
remember Mollymauk.
MARISHA: There's nothing we can do to bring him
back, is there? There's nothing we got.
LIAM: Not with what we got.
MATT: Not with what you got.
SAM: I've got another vial of acid.
MATT: On that note, once again, we love you guys.
Have a wonderful week, and is it Thursday yet?
Good night.
[music]